The Project Gutenberg eBook, Four Afoot, by Ralph Henry Barbour


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Four Afoot
       Being the Adventures of the Big Four on the Highway


Author: Ralph Henry Barbour



Release Date: January 20, 2016  [eBook #50983]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FOUR AFOOT***


E-text prepared by Donald Cummings and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team (http://www.pgdp.net)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 50983-h.htm or 50983-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/50983/50983-h/50983-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/50983/50983-h.zip)


Transcriber’s note:

      Text enclosed by underscores is in italics (_italics_).

      Text enclosed by equal signs is in bold face (=bold=).





FOUR AFOOT


      *      *      *      *      *      *

BY RALPH HENRY BARBOUR.

Each Illustrated, 12mo, Cloth, $1.50.

  Double Play.
  Forward Pass!
  The Spirit of the School.
  Four in Camp.
  Four Afoot.
  Four Afloat.
  The Arrival of Jimpson.
  Behind the Line.
  Captain of the Crew.
  For the Honor of the School.
  The Half-Back.
  On Your Mark.
  Weatherby’s Inning.

D. APPLETON & COMPANY, NEW YORK.

      *      *      *      *      *      *


[Illustration: “Swinging along a country road on Long Island.”]


FOUR AFOOT

Being the Adventures of the Big Four on the Highway

by

RALPH HENRY BARBOUR

Author of “The Half-Back,” “Behind the Line,”
“Weatherby’s Inning,” “On Your Mark,”
“Four in Camp,” etc.







[Illustration]

New York and London
D. Appleton and Company
1910

Copyright, 1906, by
D. Appleton and Company

Published September, 1906




                              To L. S. S.

                      IN MEMORY OF PLEASANT HOURS




TO THE READER


Many of you who followed the adventures of Nelson, Dan, Bob, and
Tom, as narrated in a previous story, FOUR IN CAMP, have very kindly
professed a willingness to hear more about this quartette of everyday
boys, and the author, who has himself grown rather fond of the “Big
Four,” was very well pleased to take them again for his heroes.
It seems now as though there might even be a third volume to the
series--but that will depend altogether on how well you like this one,
for, as of course you understand, the author is writing in an effort to
please you, and not himself. And if he doesn’t please you, he would be
very glad to have you tell him so, and why.

If you go to searching your map of Long Island for the places mentioned
in this story you will be disappointed. They are all there, but, with
one or two exceptions, under other names. You see, it doesn’t do to be
too explicit in a case of this sort. Mr. William Hooper, for instance,
might seriously object were you to stop in front of his house and
remark, “Huh! there’s where old Bill Hooper lives, the fellow that
wouldn’t give the ‘four’ any supper!” Of course it is different in the
case of Sag Harbor--that town has already been immortalized on the
stage, and is probably by this time quite hardened to publicity. And as
for Jericho--but then they never got there!

                                                   RALPH HENRY BARBOUR.
    CAMBRIDGE, MASS.




CONTENTS


 CHAPTER                                                      PAGE

     I.--IN WHICH THE BIG FOUR SET OUT FOR JERICHO               1

    II.--IN WHICH TOMMY DELAYS PROGRESS AND THEY LOSE
             THEIR WAY                                          13

   III.--INTRODUCES MR. JERRY HINKLEY AND AN IMPROMPTU
             DINNER                                             24

    IV.--INTRODUCES MR. WILLIAM HOOPER AND AN IMPROMPTU
             SUPPER                                             37

     V.--DESCRIBES A SECOND ENCOUNTER WITH MR. WADE             45

    VI.--WITNESSES A RESCUE AND AN ADDITION TO THE PARTY        57

   VII.--WHEREIN BARRY DISTINGUISHES HIMSELF                    67

  VIII.--IN WHICH POVERTY CLAIMS THE FOUR                       77

    IX.--SHOWS THEM BOTH HUNGRY AND SATISFIED                   88

     X.--IN WHICH NELSON SEES STRANGE VISIONS                   98

    XI.--IN WHICH JERRY TELLS HIS STORY AND DAN PROVIDES
             DINNER                                            112

   XII.--WITNESSES THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF “DANELLO”           128

  XIII.--WHEREIN THEY MEET THE WILD MAN OF THE TARTARY
             STEPPES                                           137

   XIV.--TOM SWIMS IN THE OCEAN AND DIPS INTO POETRY           151

    XV.--TELLS HOW THEY MEET THE MANNIG BASEBALL CLUB AND
             HOW NELSON AND BOB GET ENGAGEMENTS                170

   XVI.--WHEREIN NELSON AND BOB PLAY BALL AND LAURELVILLE
             MAKES A PROTEST                                   184

  XVII.--IN WHICH A FIRE ALARM AIDS MANNIG, AND THE FOUR
             LEAVE HURRIEDLY                                   201

 XVIII.--TELLS OF AN ADVENTURE IN A HUT                        218

   XIX.--TELLS OF A VOYAGE AND A SHIPWRECK                     230

    XX.--FOLLOWS WITH A RESCUE AND INTRODUCES FRIENDS IN
             NEED                                              246

   XXI.--WHEREIN TOM LOSES HIS TOOTHBRUSH AND DAN TELLS
             A STORY                                           261

  XXII.--WHEREIN GOOD-BYS ARE SAID AND BARRY MAKES HIS
             CHOICE                                            271




LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


                                                               FACING
                                                                PAGE

  “Swinging along a country road on Long Island.”      _Frontispiece_

  “Leaped excitedly at the counter.”                               74

  “‘Why! Hello, Jerry Hinkley!’”                                  104

  “Suddenly the boat’s head swirled around.”                      242




FOUR AFOOT




CHAPTER I

IN WHICH THE BIG FOUR SET OUT FOR JERICHO


“On to Jericho!”

Dan Speede took the car steps at a bound and was out on the station
platform looking eagerly about him before the other three boys had
struggled through the car door. Swinging his pack to his shoulders, he
waved an imaginary sword about his head and struck an attitude in which
his right hand pointed determinedly toward the country road.

“Forward, brave comrades!” he shouted.

The brave comrades, tumbling down the steps, cheered enthusiastically,
while the occupants of the car in which the quartet had traveled from
Long Island City looked wonderingly out upon them. But as the present
conduct of the boys was only on a par with what had gone before, the
passengers soon settled back into their seats, and the train puffed on
its way. Tom Ferris waved gayly to the occupants of the passing windows
and then followed the others along the platform. The station was a
small one, and save for a farmer who was loading empty milk cans into a
wagon far down the track, there was no one in sight.

“Which way do we go?” asked Nelson Tilford.

For answer Bob Hethington produced his “Sectional Road Map of Long
Island, Showing the Good Roads, with Description of Scenery, Routes,
etc.,” and spread it out against the side of the station.

“Here we are,” he said. “Locust Park. And here’s our road.”

“That’s all right,” answered Nelson, following the other’s finger. “I
see the road on your old map, but where is it on the landscape?”

“Why, down there somewhere. It crosses the track just beyond the
station.”

“Certainly, but you don’t happen to see it anywhere, do you?” asked Dan.

Bob had to acknowledge that he didn’t.

“Come on; we’ll ask Mr. Farmer down here,” said Tom.

So they went on down the track to the little platform from which the
milk was loaded on to the cars and hailed the farmer.

“Good morning,” said Dan. “Which is the road to Jericho, please?”

The farmer paused in his task and looked them over speculatively.
Finally,

“Want to go to Jericho, do you?” he asked.

“Yes,” answered Dan.

“Are you in a hurry?”

“Why--no, I don’t suppose so. Why?”

“’Cause there’s a train in about an hour that’ll take you to
Hicksville, and it’s about two miles from there by the road.”

“But we just got off the train,” objected Nelson.

“So I seen,” was the calm response. “Why didn’t you stay on? Didn’t you
have no money?”

“Yes, but we wanted to walk,” answered Bob. “Which way do we go?”

“Want to walk, eh? Well, you won’t have no trouble, I guess. Pretty
fair walkers, are you?”

“Bully!” answered Dan.

“Fond of exercise, I guess?”

“Love it!”

“That so? Well, there’s lots of good walkin’ around here; the roads is
full of it.”

“Oh, come on,” said Tom impatiently. “He’s plumb crazy!”

“Hold on,” interposed the farmer. “I’m tellin’ you just as fast as I
know how, ain’t I?”

“Maybe,” answered Dan politely, “but you see we sort of want to get to
Jericho before Sunday. And as it’s already Monday morning----”

“Thought you said you weren’t in no hurry,” objected the farmer.

“Well, if you call that being in a hurry,” Dan replied, “I guess we
lied to you. If you happen to have any idea where the Jericho road
is----”

“Well, I’d oughter, seems to me. I live on it. Are you all going?”

“Every last one of us,” answered Nelson.

“Tell him how old we are and the family history and let’s get on,”
suggested Dan _sotto voce_.

“Well, there’s four of you, eh?”

“I think so.” Bob made pretense of counting the assembly with much
difficulty. “Stand still, Tom, till I count you. Yes, sir, that’s
right; there are four of us.”

“Well, two of you could sit on the seat with me and two of you could
kind of hang out behind, I guess.”

“Oh, much obliged,” said Bob. “But really we’d rather walk. We’re
taking a walking trip down the island.”

“You don’t say! Well, you go back there about a half a mile and you’ll
find a road crossing the track. You take that until you fetch the
country road going to your right. Keep along that and it’s about nine
miles to Jericho.”

“Thanks,” said Dan.

“You’re welcome. That’s the best way if you’re real fond of walking.”

“Oh,” said Bob suspiciously. “And supposing we aren’t?”

“Then you’d better go the shorter way and save about two miles,”
answered the farmer gravely.

“Which way’s that?”

“Right down the track here for a quarter of a mile till you come to a
road going to the left. Take that for half a mile and then turn to your
right on the country road.”

“Thanks again,” said Bob. “You’ve had a whole lot of fun with us,
haven’t you?”

“Well, you’re sort of amusin’,” answered the farmer with a twinkle in
his eye. “But I been more entertained at the circus.”

Bob smiled in spite of himself, and the others grinned also; all save
Tom.

“B-b-b-blamed old ha-ha-hayseed!” growled Tom. “Hope he ch-ch-ch-chokes!”

The four took their way down the track, Bob highly pleased to find the
truthfulness of his map established; although Dan declared that a map
that would lie nearly a quarter of a mile couldn’t be fairly called
truthful. When they had gone a hundred yards or so the farmer hailed
them.

“What is it?” shouted Bob.

“Got friends in Jericho, have you?” called the farmer.

“No,” answered Bob, adding “confound you” under his breath.

“Going to take dinner there, be you?”

“I guess so. Why?”

“Well, you go to William Hooper’s place about a mile t’other side of
the village, and say Abner Wade sent you. He’ll look after you, William
will.”

“Thank you,” called Bob.

“He seems to be a decent chap after all,” said Nelson.

“The only trouble with him is that he’s like Dan,” answered Bob. “He’s
got an overdeveloped sense of humor.”

They tramped on, and presently found the road that crossed the railway.
Turning into this they struck due north; at least that’s what Tom
declared after consulting the compass which he carried in his pocket.
Bob looked at his watch.

“Nine-fifteen,” he announced. “We’ve got lots of time. Seven miles in
three hours is too easy.”

“If that old codger told us the right way,” amended Tom.

“He did, because the map shows it,” responded Bob.

“Don’t talk to us about that old map,” said Dan. “It’s an awful liar,
Bob.”

And while they are quarreling good-naturedly about it let us have a
look at them.

The boy walking ahead, swinging that stick he has cut from a willow
tree, is Nelson Tilford. Nelson--sometimes “Nels” to his friends--lives
in Boston within sight of the golden dome and is a student at Hillton
Academy; and next year he expects, if all goes well, to be a freshman
at Erskine College. That apparent slimness is a bit misleading, for
the muscles under the gray flannel suit are hard as iron, and what
Nelson lacks in breadth and stature is quite made up in strength and
agility. In the same way the quiet, thoughtful expression on his face
doesn’t tell all the truth. Nelson is a good student, fond of books and
inclined to think matters out for himself, but at the same time he is
fond of sports and has been known to get into mischief.

Next to him walks Tom--familiarly “Tommy”--Ferris; residence, Chicago;
age, fourteen years--almost fifteen now. Tom is inclined toward
stoutness, has light hair and gray eyes, is at once good-natured
and lazy, and has a positive talent for getting into trouble. Tommy
expresses himself clearly until he becomes excited; then he stutters
ludicrously. Tommy is also a Hillton boy, but is one class behind
Nelson, a fact which troubles him a good deal, since he wants very much
to go up to college with his friend.

The big, broad-shouldered boy with the red hair and rollicking blue
eyes is Dan Speede. Dan, who hails from New York, is fifteen years
old. Whereas Tom spends a good deal of his time getting into trouble
himself, Dan is tireless in his efforts to get others into trouble;
and he usually succeeds. For the rest, he is fond of fun, afraid of
nothing, and hasn’t an ounce of meanness in him. Dan is in his senior
year at St. Eustace Academy, and he, too, has his heart set on Erskine
College.

The last boy of the four--and the eldest--is Bob Hethington, of
Portland, Maine. Bob is sixteen--nearly seventeen--and is big,
quiet-appearing, and unexcitable. He has curly black hair and eyes and
is distinctly good-looking. Bob, too, is booked for Erskine.

Perhaps you have met these boys before, when, at Camp Chicora,
last summer, they gained the title of the Big Four. If so, you are
undoubtedly wondering how it happens that we find them on this bright
morning in early September swinging along a country road on Long
Island. Well, it was all Dan’s fault. Dan took it into his head to get
sick in early summer. As he had never been sick before to amount to
anything, he thought he might as well do the thing right. So he had
typhoid fever. That was in June, just after school closed, and he spent
the succeeding two months at home. He didn’t have a good time, and even
when the doctor declared him well, Dan felt, as he himself expressed
it, like a last summer’s straw hat. So there was a family council.
Dan’s mother said Dan ought to stay out of school and go abroad. Dan
said, “Nonsense.” So the matter was left to the physician. He said what
Dan needed was outdoor exercise, plenty of fresh air, and all that.

“Let him get into an old suit of clothes,” said the doctor, “and
take a walking trip.” (You see, the doctor was a bit old-fashioned.)
“Nothing like walking; sea trips and sanitariums aren’t half as good.
He needn’t hurry; just let him wander around country for two or three
weeks; that’ll set him up, you see if it doesn’t.”

Dan liked the idea, but the thought of wandering around the country
alone didn’t appeal to him. “If I could only get Nelson or Bob or Tommy
to go along,” he said.

“Perhaps you can,” said his father.

So three letters were written and dispatched and soon three answers
came. Nelson was glad to go, Bob was equally willing, and Tom was
“tickled to death.” Bob and Nelson had been at Camp Chicora most of
the summer, while Tom had spent his vacation at one of the Michigan
lake resorts. The last week in August there was a jolly gathering of
the clans at Dan’s house, a happy reunion, and an excited discussion
of ways and means. Mr. Speede engineered affairs, and by the fourth
day of September all was ready. There had been much discussion as to
where they should go. Nelson recommended his own State, Bob thought
Pennsylvania about right, and Tom favored the Adirondacks. It was Dan’s
father who thought of Long Island.

“In the first place,” he pointed out, “it’s right at our back door,
and you won’t have to waste a day in getting there; and as you’ve
got only three weeks at the most before school begins, that’s worth
considering. Then, too, if anything should happen to you, I could
get you here in a few hours. Long Island isn’t the biggest stretch of
country in the world, but there’s over a hundred miles of it as to
length, and I guess you can keep busy. Besides, the towns are near
together and you’ll be able to find good sleeping accommodations; and
I’d rather Dan didn’t do too much sleeping out of doors just at first.”

So the map of Long Island was produced and studied, and the more they
studied it the better they liked it. It was unknown territory to them
all, for even Dan’s knowledge of the place was limited to Coney Island,
and the names of places--names which amused Tommy vastly--and the
evident abundance of good roads won the day.

“Me for Long Island!” declared Nelson.

“Same here,” said Tommy. “I want to go to Jericho.”

“And I want to go to Yaphank,” declared Bob.

“And Skookwams Neck for mine!” cried Dan.

So they started to lay out a route. They laid out six. The first
left out Lake Ronkonkoma, and Tommy declared he just had to see Lake
Ronkonkoma. The second omitted Ketcaboneck, and Bob said he couldn’t
go back home without having seen Ketcaboneck. The third slighted
Aquebogue, and Nelson refused to go unless that charming place was on
the route. And so it went, with much laughter, until finally Mr. Speede
advised them to settle only on a place to start from, take the map
with them, and decide their itinerary as they went along. That pleased
even Tommy.

“I shall visit Quogue if I have to go alone,” he said.

What to take with them was a question which occasioned almost as
much discussion. Tommy had brought his trunk and wanted to take most
of its contents along. In the end Mr. Speede’s counsel prevailed
and each boy limited his luggage to the barest necessities. Light
rubber ponchos--squares with a hole cut in the middle which could be
slipped over the head when it rained--were purchased, and these were
to be used as knapsacks, the other articles being rolled up inside.
The other articles included a towel, bathing trunks, brush and comb,
toothbrush, extra shoe laces, a light-weight flannel shirt, three
pairs of stockings, and handkerchiefs. Each boy carried a collapsible
drinking cup in his pocket, Bob took charge of the map, and Tom was the
proud possessor of a compass. Tom also carried a folding camera, having
at length been prevailed upon to leave a choice library of fiction, a
single-barreled shotgun, and two suits of clothing behind him.

Old clothes, stout shoes, cloth caps, and light flannel shirts with
collars was the general attire. And so clothed, each with his pack in
hand, the four said good-by to Mr. and Mrs. Speede on Monday morning,
took car to the ferry, crossed the river, and boarded an early train
for Locust Park, at which point their journey on foot was to begin.
And so we find them, Dan a trifle pale of face but as merry and happy
as any, trudging along the road toward Jericho, each prepared for a
good time and eager for adventures.

And adventures were awaiting them.




CHAPTER II

IN WHICH TOMMY DELAYS PROGRESS AND THEY LOSE THEIR WAY


It was a fresh, cool morning, with a southerly breeze blowing up from
the ocean and rustling the leaves of the willows and maples along the
meadow walls. Big fleecy clouds sailed slowly across a blue September
sky, hundreds of birds flitted about the way and made the journey
musical, and life was well worth living. Not until they had turned into
the country road, a level, well-kept thoroughfare, did they catch a
glimpse of any habitation. Then a comfortable-looking farmhouse with
its accompanying barns and stables came into view.

“Let’s go in and get a drink of water,” suggested Tom.

No one else, however, was thirsty, and so Tom passed in through the
big gate alone while the others made themselves comfortable on the top
of the wall. Tom was gone a long time, but finally, just when Dan was
starting off to find him, he came into sight.

“What’s he got?” asked Nelson.

“Looks as though he was eating something,” answered Dan. “By Jupiter,
it’s pie!”

“You fellows missed it,” called Tom, smiling broadly. “She gave me a
piece of apple pie and it was great.”

“Doesn’t look like apple,” said Bob.

“Oh, this is squash. The first piece was apple,” was the cheerful reply.

“Well, of all pigs!” said Nelson. “How many pieces did you have?”

“Only two,” was the unruffled response. “And a glass of milk.”

Nelson looked his disgust, but Dan, reaching forward, sent the
half-consumed wedge of pastry into the dust.

“Hope you ch-ch-choke!” said Tommy warmly, viewing his prize ruefully.
“It was gu-gu-gu-good pie, too!”

But he got no sympathy from his laughing companions. Bob declared that
it served him jolly well right.

“He’ll wish he hadn’t eaten any before he gets to the end of the day’s
journey,” said Dan. “We’ve got six miles and more to Jericho, and I
guess we’d better be doing ’em.”

So they took up the march again. Everyone was in high feather. Side
excursions into adjoining fields were made, Dan went a hundred yards
out of his way to shy a stone at a noisy frog, and Nelson climbed a
cedar tree to its topmost branches merely because Bob hazarded the
opinion that cedar trees were hard to shin up. Only Tommy seemed to
experience none of the intoxication of the highway and the morning air.
Tommy appeared a bit sluggish, and kept dropping back, necessitating
frequent halts.

“Look here, Tommy,” said Dan presently, “we’re awfully fond of you, but
we love honor more; also dinner. If you really want to spend the day
around here studying nature, why just say so; we’ll wait for you at
Jericho.”

Whereupon Tom gave a grunt and moved faster. But at the end of half an
hour the truth was out; Tommy didn’t feel just right.

“Where do you hurt?” asked Bob skeptically.

“I--I have a beast of a pain in my chest,” said Tom, leaning against a
fence and laying one hand pathetically halfway down the front of his
flannel shirt. The others howled gleefully.

“On his chest!” shrieked Dan.

“Sure it isn’t a headache?” laughed Nelson.

Tom looked aggrieved.

“I gu-gu-gu-guess if you fu-fu-fu-fellows had it you wu-wu-wu-wu-wu----”

“Look here, Tommy,” said Bob, “you haven’t got a pain; you’ve just
swallowed an alarm clock!”

“That’s what you get for eating all that pie and making a hog of
yourself,” said Dan sternly.

“It’s Tommy’s tummy,” murmured Nelson.

Whatever it was, it undoubtedly hurt, for Tommy was soon doubled up on
the grass groaning dolefully. The others, exchanging comical glances,
made themselves comfortable alongside.

“Got anything in your medicine chest that will help him, Dan?” asked
Nelson. Dan shook his head. The medicine chest consisted of a two-ounce
bottle of camphor liniment and a similar sized flask of witch-hazel.

“How you feeling now, Tommy?” asked Bob gravely.

“Better,” muttered Tom. “I’d ju-ju-ju-just like to know what that woman
put in her pu-pu-pu-pie!”

“You don’t suppose it was poison, do you?” asked Dan, with a wink at
the others.

Tom’s head came up like a shot and he stared wildly about him.

“I bu-bu-bu-bet it wa-wa-wa-was!” he shrieked. “It fu-fu-feels like it!
A-a-a-a-arsenic!”

“That’s mean, Dan,” said Bob. “He’s only fooling, Tommy. You have just
got a plain, everyday tummyache. Lie still a bit and you’ll be all
right.”

Tom looked from one to the other in deep mistrust.

“If I du-du-du-die,” he wailed, “I--I----”

He broke off to groan and wriggle uneasily.

“What, Tommy?” asked Dan with a grin.

“I--I hope you all ch-ch-ch-ch-choke!”

Tom’s pain in his “chest” kept them there the better part of two hours,
and it was past eleven when the invalid pronounced himself able to
continue the journey. There was still some four miles to go in order
to reach Jericho, which hamlet they had settled upon as their dinner
stop, and they struck out briskly.

“What was that chap’s name?” asked Dan. “The one we were to get dinner
from.”

“Hooper,” answered Bob, “William Hooper. I wish I was there now. I’m as
hungry as a bear.”

There was a groan from Tom.

“That’s all right, Tommy, but we haven’t feasted on nice apple and
squash pie, you see.”

“Shut up!” begged Tom.

“How big’s this Jericho place?” asked Nelson.

Out came Bob’s road map.

“Seems to be about three houses there according to this,” answered Bob.

“Gee! I hope we don’t get by without seeing it,” said Dan. “Do you
suppose there’s a sign on it?”

“I don’t know, but I’ve heard there was a tree opposite it,” Bob
replied gravely. “And there’s something else here too,” he continued,
still studying the map. “It’s a long, black thing; looks as though it
might be a skating rink or a ropewalk.”

“Maybe it’s the poorhouse,” suggested Dan, looking over his shoulder.

“Or a hospital for Tommy,” added Nelson.

“Anyhow, I hope there’s something to eat there,” said Bob.

“Me too,” sighed Nelson. “This is the longest old seven miles I ever
saw. And it’s after twelve o’clock. Sure we’re on the right road, Bob?”

“Of course. Look at the map.”

“Oh, hang the map! Let’s ask some one.”

“All right. It does seem a good ways. We’ll ask the next person we see.”

But although they had met half a dozen persons up to that time, it
seemed now that the district had suddenly become depopulated. Nelson
said he guessed they were all at home eating dinner. After another half
hour of steady walking, during which time Tom recovered his spirits,
they came into sight of a little village set along the road. There was
one store there and some five or six houses.

“Anyhow,” said Dan hopefully, “we can get some crackers and cheese in
the store.”

But when they had piled through the door they changed their minds.
It was a hardware store! A little old man with a bald head and
brass-rimmed spectacles limped down behind the counter to meet them.

“Is this Jericho?” asked Bob.

“Jericho? No, this ain’t Jericho,” was the answer.

“Oh! Er--what is it?”

“Bakerville.”

“Where’s Bakerville?”

“Right here.”

“I know, but--well, where’s Jericho?”

“’Bout eight miles from here.”

Four boys groaned in unison. Bob pulled out his map, in spite of the
fact that Dan looked as though he was ready to seize upon and destroy
it.

“That’s right,” said Bob sadly. “We got too far north.”

“I should say we did!” snorted Dan. “About eight miles!”

“But I don’t see how we managed to get off the right road,” said Bob.

“I do,” answered Nelson. “Don’t you remember when Tom was laid out?
There were two roads there just beyond. We must have taken the wrong
one.”

“That’s so,” said Tom; “I remember.”

“Lots of good your remembering does now,” grunted Nelson. “If you
hadn’t got to fussing with those pies----!”

“Thought you was in Jericho, did yer?” asked the shopkeeper with a
chuckle. They nodded soberly. “Well, well, that’s a good joke, ain’t
it?”

“Swell!” muttered Dan.

Tom grunted something about choking.

“Is there any place here where we can get something to eat?” asked Bob.

“I guess not, but there’s a hotel about a mile along. I guess you can
get something there.”

So they prevailed on him to go to the door with them and point out the
way.

“It’s on your way to Jericho,” said the storekeeper, pointing out the
road. “You turn down that first road there and then bear to the left
until you come to a big white farmhouse. Then you turn to the right
and keep on about half a mile, or maybe a mile, and the Center House
is just a little beyond. It’s a brown house with lots of windows and a
barn.”

“Can’t help finding it,” muttered Dan sarcastically.

They were rather quiet as they passed through the village and took the
turn indicated. From one house came an enticing odor of onions, and Dan
leaned up against a telephone pole and pretended to weep. That mile was
as long as two, but in the end they came into sight of the “brown house
with lots of windows and a barn.” But it didn’t look very hospitable.
The windows were closed and shuttered, and the barn appeared to be in
the last stages of decay. With sinking hearts they climbed the steps
and beat a tattoo on the front door. All was silence.

“Empty!” groaned Nelson.

“Nothing doing!” murmured Dan.

“Hit it again,” counseled Tommy.

They all took a hand at beating on that door, but it didn’t do the
least bit of good. The place was empty and closed up. Nelson sat down
on the top step and stared sadly across the country road. Tom joined
him.

“Wish I had some more of that pie,” he muttered.

Bob produced the map, which was already getting frayed at the corners,
and opened it out.

“The best thing to do,” he said, “is to keep on till we find a
farmhouse or something, and beg some food.”

“I could eat raw dog,” said Dan. “Any houses in sight on that lying map
of yours?”

“Sure.”

“How many miles off?”

“About--er--about two or three, I should say.”

“Can’t be done,” said Dan decidedly. “I couldn’t walk two miles if
there was a thousand dollars at the end of it.”

“I could do it if there was a ham sandwich at the end of it,” said
Nelson.

“Hunger has driven him daffy,” explained Dan sadly.

“Well, there’s no use staying here,” said Bob impatiently.

“Oh, I don’t know. Might as well die here as anywhere,” answered Nelson.

“Wasn’t it your father, Dan, who said the beauty about Long Island was
that the towns were near together and we could get good accommodations
easily?” asked Tom.

Dan made no answer.

Suddenly a noise startled them. At the end of the porch stood a boy
of sixteen in an old blue shirt and faded overalls. He was plainly
surprised to see them, and stood looking at them for several seconds
before he spoke. Finally,

“Hello!” he said.

“Greetings,” answered Dan. “Will you kindly send the head waiter to us?”

“Huh?” asked the youth.

“Well, never mind then. Just show us to our rooms. We’ll have a light
lunch sent up and keep our appetites for dinner.”

“Is the hotel closed?” interrupted Bob. The youth nodded.

“Yep. They didn’t make no money last summer, so they didn’t open it
this year. Did you knock?”

“Oh, no, we didn’t exactly knock,” answered Dan. “We only kind of
tapped weakly.”

“Want anything?”

“Yes, a man at Bakerville said we could get some dinner here. I don’t
suppose we can, though,” added Bob sadly. The other shook his head
slowly.

“Guess not,” he said. “There’s a hotel at Minton Hill, though. There’s
lots of summer folks there.”

“How far’s that?”

“Not more’n six miles.”

The four groaned in unison.

“We haven’t had anything since seven o’clock,” said Nelson.

“You ain’t?” The youth became instantly sympathetic. “Well, ain’t that
too bad?”

The question scarcely seemed to demand an answer and so received none.
The youth in the overalls frowned deeply.

“Well, now, look here,” he said finally. “Me an’ dad lives back here in
the barn and looks after the farm. We ain’t got much, but if some bread
and butter and milk will do, why, I guess----”

The four threw themselves upon him as one man.

“Bread!” shouted Dan.

“Butter!” cried Nelson.

“Milk!” gurgled Tommy.

“Lead the way!” said Bob.




CHAPTER III

INTRODUCES MR. JERRY HINKLEY AND AN IMPROMPTU DINNER


That was a strange meal and an enjoyable one. The menu wasn’t
elaborate, but their appetites were, and not one of the four was
inclined to be critical. What had formerly been the carriage house had
been fitted up with a couple of cot beds, some chairs, a stove, and a
table, into an airy, if not very well-appointed, apartment. The boy in
overalls, whose name during the subsequent conversation transpired to
be Jerry Hinkley, produced a loaf of bread and a pat of butter from a
box, and then disappeared for a minute. When he returned he brought a
battered tin can half full of milk. Eating utensils were scarce, and
the boys had to take turns with the two knives and the two thick china
cups. The table boasted no cloth, and Tom had to sit on an empty box,
but those were mere details.

“I looked to see if I could find a few eggs,” said Jerry, as he poured
out the milk, “but we ain’t got but eight hens and they ain’t been
layin’ much lately.”

“This will do finely,” mumbled Dan, with his mouth full of bread and
butter.

“It’s swell,” said Tom from behind his cup.

The doors were wide open, and the September sunlight streamed in over
the dusty floor. A bedraggled rooster, followed cautiously by a trio
of dejected-looking hens, approached and observed the banquet from the
doorsill, clucking suspiciously. Jerry sat on the edge of one of the
cots and watched proceedings with interest. But he seemed uneasy, and
once or twice he started up only to change his mind with a troubled
frown and return to his seat. Finally he asked awkwardly:

“Say, was you fellows meanin’ to pay anything for your food?”

“Of course,” Bob assured him. “You don’t think we’re going to let you
feed us for nothing?”

“That’s all right, then,” said Jerry, looking vastly relieved. “We got
some bacon and if you say so I’ll fry you some in a jiffy.”

The boys howled approval.

“You see,” continued Jerry, “I was most skeered to give you bacon
’cause dad would have missed it when he got back. Dad ain’t got
much money, an’ I guess he wouldn’t like me to be too free with the
victuals. But if you’re willin’ to pay----”

“Sure, we’ll pay,” said Bob.

So Jerry set a frying pan on top of the stove, touched a match to the
pile of straw and corncobs inside, and produced a strip of bacon from
the larder. Even Bob, who prided himself on his culinary abilities, had
to pay tribute to Jerry’s deftness. In ten minutes the first panful of
crisp bacon was ready and a second lot was sizzling on the stove.

“Talk about your reed birds!” said Dan eloquently.

“Never tasted anything better in my life,” said Nelson. “Is there any
more milk there?”

Ten minutes later the banquet was a thing of the past, and the four sat
back and sighed luxuriously.

“That was sure fine,” said Dan. “My, but I was hungry!”

“Me too,” answered Nelson. “But look here, how about you?” He looked
inquiringly at Jerry. “We haven’t left you a thing.”

“Oh, I had my dinner at twelve,” answered their host, as he cleared the
table. “You see we have our breakfast about six, dad an’ me.”

“You say your father’s away to-day?” asked Bob.

“Yes, gone over to Roslyn to buy some feed for the horse.”

“And you live here all the year, do you?”

“We only come here last April. We used to have a farm down near
Hicksville, but we lost it.”

“That’s too bad. Is there just you and your father?”

Jerry nodded soberly.

“Mother died year ago last May. Me an’ dad’s been kind of helpless
since then. Things don’t seem to go just right nowadays.”

“Do you go to school?” asked Nelson.

“No. I did one year over to Newton. It was a mighty nice school too.
There was three teachers. I learnt a whole lot that winter. I been
intendin’ to go again, but since mother died----”

Jerry’s voice dwindled away into silence while he stared out into the
sunlit stable yard.

“I see,” said Bob sympathetically.

“Mother she taught me a lot at home when I was just a kid,” resumed
Jerry. “Spellin’, ’rithmetic, and all about Scotland. She was born in
Scotland, you see. I guess I know more’n most fellers about Scotland,”
he added proudly.

“I bet you know a heap more about it than I do,” said Bob.

“I guess you’re through school, ain’t you?” asked Jerry.

“I get through this year,” answered Bob. “Then I’m going to college.”

Jerry’s eyes brightened.

“Is that so?” he asked eagerly. “I guess you’re pretty smart. What
college are you going to?”

“Erskine. Ever hear of it?”

“No.” Jerry shook his head apologetically. “You see I don’t know much
about colleges. I--I’d like to see one. I guess Yale must be pretty
fine. I expect it’s bigger’n that boardin’ school over to Garden City?”

“St. Paul’s? Some bigger, yes.”

“Is the school you been going to like St. Paul’s?”

“Not much, but Nelson and Tommy here go to a school a good deal the
same. Hillton. Ever hear of Hillton?”

Again Jerry shook his head.

“What’s it like, your school?” he asked.

For the next quarter of an hour Nelson told about Hillton--Tom
interpolating explanatory footnotes, as it were--and Jerry listened
with shining eyes and open mouth. It was all very wonderful to him,
and he asked question after question. Dan tried to tell him that while
Hillton was good enough in a way, the only school worth boasting about
was St. Eustace. But Tom tipped him out of his chair, and as it is
difficult to uphold the honor of your school with any eloquence from
the hard floor of a carriage house, Dan decided to shut up.

“I guess it costs a good deal to go to a school like that,” said Jerry
regretfully.

“Not so awful much,” answered Nelson. “A fellow can get through the
year on three hundred.”

Jerry nodded gravely.

“I guess that’s kind of reasonable, ain’t it?”

“Yes. Then if a fellow is lucky enough to get a scholarship, it brings
it down to about two hundred, maybe.”

“What’s a scholarship like?” asked Jerry interestedly.

Nelson explained.

“I guess it’s pretty hard to get into one of them schools, ain’t it?”
pursued Jerry.

“Oh, not so very hard.”

“Think I could do it?”

“Well--I don’t know. I think maybe you could if you had some coaching.”

“What’s that like?” asked Jerry.

Nelson glanced appealingly at Bob, and the latter took up the task.
Half an hour later the four decided that it was time for them to be
going. Bob broached the matter of payment.

“How much do we owe, Jerry?”

“I guess about a quarter,” answered Jerry.

“A quarter!” cried Tom. “Get out! That was worth a dollar! It saved my
life.”

“It’s worth fifty cents, anyhow,” said Nelson, “and here’s mine.”

“Well,” said Jerry accepting the coin reluctantly, “but I don’t feel
just right about it. You see, the milk don’t cost nothin’, and the
butter don’t cost nothin’, and the bread was only five cents, and----”

“That bread was worth more than five cents to us,” laughed Dan. “Here,
take the money, and don’t be silly.” Dan held out his half dollar, and
Bob and Tom followed suit. Jerry looked bewildered.

“What’s that?” he asked.

“We’re going to pay fifty cents,” said Dan.

“Yes, but he paid it,” replied Jerry, pointing his thumb at Nelson.

“He paid for himself, that’s all.”

“Gosh! I didn’t mean you was to pay fifty cents apiece!” cried Jerry.
“Fifty cents is more’n enough for the whole of you!”

They laughed derisively, and tried to get him to accept the rest of the
money, but nothing they found to say had any effect.

“I been paid enough,” said Jerry doggedly. “I’m much obliged, but
I can’t take no more. You didn’t eat more’n a quarter’s worth of
victuals.”

In the end they had to let him have his own way. As they were fixing
their packs on to their shoulders Jerry approached Nelson. He held out
a soiled envelope and a stump of pencil.

“Say, would you just write down the name of that school you was tellin’
about?” he asked awkwardly.

“Surely,” answered Nelson.

“‘Hillton Academy, Hillton, New York,’” read Jerry unctuously. “Thanks.
I’m goin’ there some day.”

“That’s fine,” answered Nelson heartily. “You’ll like it, I’m sure.
Maybe you can get up this year while I’m there. I wish you would. I’d
be glad to show you around.”

“This year? No, I couldn’t do that. You see, I’ll have to earn some
money first; three hundred dollars, you said, didn’t you?”

“Oh, you mean you’re going to enter?” asked Nelson.

“Yes, I’m goin’ to school there. You see”--Jerry paused and looked
thoughtfully out into the afternoon sunlight--“you see, mother always
intended me to have an education, an’--an’ I’m agoin’ to have it!” he
added doggedly. “I’m goin’ to get out of here; there ain’t nothin’
here; I’m goin’ to get a place on a farm and earn some money. I guess
one year there would help, wouldn’t it?”

“Yes, it would,” answered Nelson earnestly. “And I dare say if you got
through one year, you’d find a way to get through the next. Lots of
fellows pretty near work their way through school. Look here, Jerry,
supposing I wanted to write to you, where could I direct a letter?”

“Dad gets his mail at Bakerville. I guess if you wrote my name and his
name and sent it to Bakerville, I’d get it. I--I’d like first rate to
get a letter from you. I ain’t never got very many letters.”

“Well, I’ll write you one,” said Nelson cheerfully. “I shall want to
know how you’re getting along, so you must answer it. Will you?”

Jerry reddened under his tan.

“I guess so,” he muttered. “But I ain’t much of a writer. You see, I
ain’t never seemed to have much time for writin’.”

“Of course not! But don’t let that trouble you. All ready, you fellows?
Well, good-by, Jerry. We’re awfully much obliged to you. Hope we’ll see
you again. And don’t forget that you’re going to make some money and
enter Hillton.”

Jerry shook hands embarrassedly with each of the four and followed them
down to the road.

“Good-by,” he called. “I wish you’d all come again. You been good to
tell me about them schools. I--I had a mighty good time!”

They walked on in silence for some distance. Then, when the corner of
the hotel had disappeared around a turn of the road, Tom broke out
explosively.

“It’s a mu-mu-mu-mean sh-shame!” he said.

“What is?” they asked in chorus.

“Why, that fellow bu-bu-back there. He’d give his skin to gu-gu-gu-go
to school, and instead of that he’ll have to stay there in that
pu-pu-place all his life!”

“That’s so, Tommy,” said Bob. “It is hard luck. And he’s a good fellow,
too, Jerry is. Take those overalls off him, and put some decent clothes
on him, and he’d be a good-looking chap.”

“Yes, and he’s built well too,” added Dan. “He’d make the varsity
eleven first pop.”

“He’s the sort of chap who’d be popular, I think,” said Nelson. “I
wish----”

“What do you wish?” asked Dan.

“I wish we could help him.”

There was an instant’s silence. Then Tommy fell over a stone and began
to stutter violently.

“Lu-lu-lu-lu-lu--” sputtered Tommy.

“Easy there,” cautioned Dan. “You’ll blow up in a minute.”

“Lu-lu-lu-lu-lu-lu----”

“Shut up, you fellows,” said Dan indignantly, “and hear what he has to
say. It’s going to be great!”

“Lu-lu-lu-let’s!”

“Eh?”

“How’s that, Tommy?”

“Once more, please.”

“Lu-lu-lu-let’s!” repeated Tom, very red of face.

“Oh, of course!”

“Twice that, Tommy!”

“Let’s what?”

“Lu-let’s help him!”

“Oh! I’d forgotten what we were talking about,” said Dan.

“Yes, that was about half a mile back,” said Bob.

“Let’s see if we can’t make up enough to send him to Hillton for a
year,” went on Tommy. “He’d probably get a scholarship, and then if he
found some work there, he’d make out all right the next year.”

“You’ve got a good heart, Tommy,” said Dan. “It’s a shame you don’t go
to a decent school.”

Tom took no notice of the insult.

“Couldn’t we, Bob?” he asked.

“I don’t see how we could do it ourselves,” answered the older boy.
“But we might get some one interested in him.”

“Three hundred isn’t awfully much,” said Nelson thoughtfully. “If we
got our folks to give a fourth----”

“That’s it!” cried Tom. “My dad will give a fourth. Why, it would be
only seventy-five dollars!”

“A mere nothing,” murmured Dan. “One moment, please, and I will draw
a check.” He flourished his hand through the air. “‘Pay to Jerry
seventy-five and no one-hundredths dollars. Daniel H. F. Speede.’ There
you are. Oh, not a word, I beg of you! It is nothing, nothing at all! A
mere trifle!”

“And I think I can promise for my father,” Nelson was saying. “How
about you, Bob?”

“I’ll ask. I think he will give it, although I can’t say sure. He’s had
hard luck lately.”

“You’re in it, aren’t you, Dan?”

“Not a cent will I allow my father to pay to send a chap to Hillton,”
answered Dan indignantly. “If he wants to go to St. Eustace, now,
why----”

“But you see, Dan,” said Tom sweetly, “he wants an education.”

Dan chased Tom down the road and administered proper punishment. When
order was restored the four discussed the matter seriously, and it was
decided that Jerry was to go to Hillton.

“Of course,” said Nelson, “he couldn’t pass the entrance exams as he is
now, but if he has a year’s schooling this year he ought to make it all
right. And if he doesn’t have to work he can go to school. I suppose
there’s a decent school around here somewhere?”

“Plenty of them,” answered Dan indignantly.

“If he needs some coaching next summer,” said Tom, “I’ll see that he
gets it.”

“You might coach him yourself, Tommy,” suggested Dan.

“He said he was sixteen now,” pondered Bob. “That would make him
seventeen when he entered. Rather old for the junior class, eh?”

“What of it?” asked Nelson. “I’ll see that he knows some good fellows,
and I don’t believe any chap’s going to make fun of him when they know
about him. Besides, maybe we can get him into the lower middle class.”

“That’s so,” said Tom. “Anyway, I’ll bet he’s the sort that can learn
fast and remember things. Wish I could.”

“Here’s a romantic-looking well,” said Dan, “and I’m thirsty. That
bacon was a trifle salt. Let’s go in and interview the old oaken
bucket.”

The well stood in front of a little white house, and as they went up
the walk a woman put her head around the corner of the open door. Dan
doffed his cap gallantly.

“May we borrow a drink of water?” he asked politely.

The woman nodded and smiled, and Tom began winding the old-fashioned
windlass. When the bucket--which turned out to be tin instead of
oak--made its appearance the four dipped their cups.

“Fellow tramps,” declaimed Dan, “let us drink a health to Jerry. May he
be a credit to Hillton!”

“May our plans succeed,” added Nelson.

“Here’s to Ju-ju-Jerry!” cried Tom.

“To our _protégé_!” laughed Bob.

“To our _protégé_!” they echoed, and drank merrily.




CHAPTER IV

INTRODUCES MR. WILLIAM HOOPER AND AN IMPROMPTU SUPPER


By the time they had regained the Jericho road they had walked nearly
twelve miles, and it was close to six o’clock. It had been slow going
for the last two hours, for the distance had begun to tell on them,
especially on Dan and Tom. Nelson and Bob, who had been at Camp Chicora
for ten weeks, were in pretty good training, but even they were tired.

“Now what?” asked Dan, as they paused at the junction of the two roads.

“Well, Jericho’s a good mile and a half back, according to the map,”
answered Bob. “Suppose we find Bill Hooper’s place and see if he will
give us some supper. After that we can go on to Jericho and find a
place to sleep.”

“All right, but are you sure there’s a hotel at Jericho?” said Nelson.

“No, but Bill will tell us, I guess.”

“On to Bill’s!” said Dan wearily.

So they turned to the right and made toward the nearest farmhouse,
a half mile distant. It proved on nearer acquaintance to be a
prosperous-looking, well-kept place, with acres and acres of land to
it and a big white house flanked by a much bigger red barn. They made
their way up a lane under the branches of spreading elm trees, and
knocked at the front door. Presently footsteps sounded inside and the
portal swung open, revealing a thickset elderly man, whose morose,
suspicious face was surrounded by a fringe of grizzled beard and
whiskers.

“Well?” he demanded.

“Good evening,” said Bob. “Could you let us have something to eat, sir?
We would be glad to pay for it.”

“This isn’t a hotel,” said the man.

“Oh, then you aren’t Mr. William Hooper?”

“Yes, that’s me. Some one send you here?”

“Yes, sir. We met a man down at Locust Park who said he was sure
you’d----”

“What was his name?”

“Er--what was it, Dan?”

“Abner Wade,” answered Dan promptly.

The name exerted a remarkable effect on Mr. William Hooper. His face
flushed darkly and his hands clinched. Bob fell back from the doorway
in alarm.

“Abner Wade, eh?” growled Mr. Hooper. “Abner Wade sent ye, did he? I
might have known it was him! Now you make tracks, the whole parcel of
ye! If you ain’t outside my grounds in two minutes I’ll set the dog on
ye! Here, Brutus! Here, Brutus!”

“_Et tu, Brute!_” muttered Dan as he fled down the path.

At the gate they brought up, laughing, and looked warily back for the
dog. Much to their relief he wasn’t in sight.

“Don’t believe he’s got any dog,” said Tommy.

“Don’t see why he should have,” said Dan. “He’s ugly enough himself to
scare anyone away.”

“I’d like to see that Abner Wade just about two minutes,” said Nelson.
“Nice game he put up on us!”

“Yes. Old Bill hates him like poison, evidently,” answered Bob. “He’s
an awful joker, Abe is!”

“What’ll we do?” asked Tom.

“Foot it to Jericho, I guess,” said Bob. “It’s only about a mile.”

Tom groaned dismally.

“When I get back,” said Dan darkly, “I’ll bet I’ll tell that doctor of
mine what I think of his old walking!”

“Here’s some one coming,” whispered Nelson. “Let’s light out.”

“It’s a woman,” said Bob. “Guess it’s the old codger’s wife. Let’s
wait.”

She was a stout, kind-faced woman, and her hurried walk from the house
had left her somewhat out of breath.

“Boys,” she gasped, “I’m real sorry about this. And I guess you didn’t
mean any harm.”

“Harm?” echoed Bob. “No’m, we just wanted some supper and were willing
to pay for it. A man down at Locust Park----”

“Yes, I know. That was the trouble. You see, Abner Wade and my husband
ain’t been on speaking terms for ten years and more. Abner sold William
a horse that wasn’t just what he made it out to be; it died less’n
a week afterwards; and William went to law about it, and Abner kept
appealing or something, and it ain’t never come to a settlement, and
I guess it never will. If you hadn’t mentioned Abner Wade I guess it
would have been all right. I’m real sorry.”

“Oh, it’s all right, ma’am,” Bob hastened to assure her. “I dare say we
can find something to eat at the hotel in Jericho.”

“There isn’t any hotel there, far as I know,” said Mrs. Hooper, shaking
her head.

Dan whistled softly, and even Bob looked discouraged.

“I guess it’s the cold, cold ground for us to-night,” said Dan. “If I
only had a ham sandwich----!”

Mrs. Hooper cast a glance up the lane.

“Maybe you boys wouldn’t mind sleeping in the barn,” she suggested
doubtfully.

“Indeed we wouldn’t,” said Bob.

“That would be fun,” assented Nelson.

“Anyway, I don’t see what better you can do,” said the woman. “It’s
a good five miles to Samoset, and I don’t know of any hotel nearer
than that. You go around here by that wall and cross over to the barn
back of the garden. You’ll find the little door at the side unlocked.
There’s plenty of hay there, and I guess you can be right comfortable.
As soon as I can I’ll bring you out some supper.”

Tom let out a subdued whoop of joy, and Dan did a double shuffle in the
grass.

“It’s mighty good of you,” said Bob warmly.

“Yes’m; we’re awfully much obliged,” echoed Nelson.

“We’ll be mighty glad to pay for it,” Dan chimed in.

“Well, I guess there won’t be anything to pay,” said Mrs. Hooper with a
smile. “Now you run along, and I’ll come soon as I can. William’s kind
of worked up, and I guess he’d better not know about it. I want you to
promise me one thing, though.”

“Yes’m. What is it?” asked Nelson.

“Not to light any matches.”

“Yes, we promise.”

“All right. Run along now, and keep out of sight.” Mrs. Hooper nodded
good-naturedly, and turned back toward the house. Dan struck a dramatic
attitude.

“Supper!” he cried.

“Shut up, and come along,” said Bob.

“Well,” said Dan, “I guess here’s where we get the laugh on Abe.
Only--well, if I ever have a chance to square things with him----!”

Words failed him, and with a sigh he followed the others down the road
for a distance, over a fence, and so along a wall that skirted the
truck garden. The little door was unlocked, as Mrs. Hooper had said
it would be, and they stumbled into the twilight of the big barn.
The only sound was the occasional stamping of a horse and the steady
_crunch-crunch_ of the cattle.

“Fortunate beasts,” whispered Nelson.

Overhead the mows were filled with fragrant hay, and near at hand a
ladder led up to it. From a window high up at one end of the building a
flood of red light entered from the sunset sky.

“Shall we go up there now?” asked Nelson.

“No. Let’s stay here until we get something to eat,” said Bob.

So they made themselves comfortable, Dan and Nelson finding seats on
some sacks of grain, and Bob and Tom climbing into the back of a wagon
and sprawling out on the floor of it, hands under heads.

“I’ll bet no one will have to sing me asleep to-night,” said Dan with a
luxurious sigh. “Just wait until I strike that hay up there!”

Conversation was desultory for the next half hour, for all four of the
boys were dead tired. Tommy even dropped off to sleep once, though he
denied the fact indignantly. It seemed a long while before Mrs. Hooper
appeared, but when she did, her burden more than atoned for the period
of waiting. She carried a big tray, and it was piled high. There was
cold mutton, a pitcher of hot tea, milk, stacks of bread and plenty of
butter, preserved pears, a whole custard pie, and lots of cake. Tom was
almost tearful. Mrs. Hooper set the tray down on a box and disappeared
into the harness room, to return in a moment with a lighted lantern.

“There,” she said; “now I guess you can see what you’re eating. When
you get through, set the tray here by the door, and I’ll get it later.
And put out the lantern carefully. Don’t leave any sparks about. In the
morning you stay up in the hay until I call you. My husband will be out
in the field by seven and then you can come to the house and have some
breakfast. Good night.”

“Good night, ma’am,” they answered with full hearts and fuller mouths.
“We’re awfully much obliged to you.”

“Yes’m. You’ve saved our lives,” said Dan.

Mrs. Hooper surveyed them smilingly from the door.

“Well, it’s real nice to see you boys eat,” she said. “I just couldn’t
bear to have you go tramping around so late without any supper. And
William wouldn’t have wanted it either, only--if it hadn’t been for
Abner Wade, you see.”

“Yes’m!”

“Good night, Mrs. Hooper!”

“Thank you very much!”

Then the door closed behind her, and they were left to the enjoyment of
their supper. And when I say enjoyment I know what I’m talking about!

“Say, fellows,” said Dan presently, when the edge of his appetite had
been dulled by many slices of cold meat and bread and butter, “say, do
you suppose we’re always going to eat in barns on this trip?”

“Much I’d care if it was always as good as this,” answered Nelson,
dividing the pie into four generous quarters with his knife. And the
others agreed. When only crumbs remained on the tray they blew out the
lantern, set the remains of the feast beside the door, and climbed up
into the loft. There, burrowing luxuriously in the sweet-smelling hay,
they fell asleep almost instantly.




CHAPTER V

DESCRIBES A SECOND ENCOUNTER WITH MR. WADE


At a little after eight the next morning they were on their way
again. Nine hours of sound, refreshing slumber had worked a change.
Dan no longer held any grudge against the doctor, while Tom, cheered
and comforted by the biggest kind of a breakfast, was once more his
optimistic self. They had overwhelmed Mrs. Hooper with their gratitude,
had made friends with Brutus, a benevolent and toothless setter, and
had left the farmhouse with sentiments of regret. For, as Tom said,
who could tell when they would again find such coffee and such corn
muffins! Brutus had insisted upon accompanying them as far as the farm
limits, and had parted from them with tears in his eyes; at least, we
have Dan’s word for it. Nelson became philosophic.

“It just shows,” he said vaguely, “that you can’t always tell at first
what you’re up against. Some persons are like some dogs, their bark is
worse than their bite.”

“Sure,” agreed Dan. “Some persons haven’t any teeth.”

It was the jolliest sort of a September morning. Once or twice
they imagined they could catch glimpses of the ocean, sparkling and
sun-flecked in the distance. Whether they actually saw it or not, they
were constantly reminded of it by the fresh, salty breeze that caressed
their faces.

“Why can’t we go along the shore instead of here where we are?” asked
Nelson.

“That’s so,” cried Dan.

Bob produced his map, and they sat on the top rail of a fence and
studied it.

“After we leave Samoset,” said Bob, “we can turn down here and go
to Sisset. There must be a hotel there, and we can spend the night.
Then----”

“Maybe we can find a barn,” suggested Tom.

“Then in the morning we’ll go on to Seaville or some place along there.”

“But, look here,” objected Dan; “we’re a heap nearer the north shore
than we are the south.”

“Yes, but what we want is the real ocean,” said Bob. “We can come home
by the Sound shore.”

“Just as you say,” answered Dan. “Meanwhile, let’s get to Samoset
before dinner time.”

They reached that town at a little after ten o’clock, and found it
quite a lively place. There were two hotels, and although Tom held
out awhile for a comfortable barn, they finally decided to go to the
Fairview House and have dinner. After registering, they left their
packs in the office, washed and spruced up, and went out to see the
city. The main street was well lined with stores and well filled with
vehicles.

“This is the first thing we’ve struck,” declared Dan, “that looks like
a town. Let’s buy something.”

So they roamed from store to store, looking into every window, and
speculating on the desirability of the articles shown. Tom bought a
pound of peanut brittle which, on close examination, proved to be much
older than supposed. Tom declared disgustedly that it wasn’t what
it was cracked up to be, a pun that elicited only groans from his
companions. Bob purchased six souvenir post cards, and insisted on
returning to the hotel to address them. So the others accompanied him,
and, while he retired to the writing room, sat themselves down on the
top step in the sunlight and attacked Tom’s candy.

“Nothing like candy,” Dan declared, “to give a fellow an appetite for
dinner.”

“That may be true of some candy,” answered Nelson, “but----”

“Hello!” cried Dan excitedly. “Look there!”

The others followed the direction of his gaze, and saw a tired-looking
sorrel horse coming up the street, drawing a battered buggy, in which
sat a single occupant. The occupant was Mr. Abner Wade. The boys
watched eagerly. Opposite the hotel Mr. Wade drew up to the sidewalk,
jumped out, and tied the horse to a post. While doing so, he glanced
across and saw them. A smile spread itself over his features, and he
waved his hand.

“Howdy do?” he called.

“How are you, sir?” responded Dan cordially. Nelson and Tom glanced
about at him in surprise. “A nice morning, Mr. Wade.”

“Fine, fine!” agreed the farmer. “Well, you’re getting along, I see.”

“Yes, sir, thank you. And, by the way, we’re much obliged for that tip
you gave us. We called on Mr. Hooper, and spent the night there. We
were certainly treated well, and we’re very much obliged to you, sir,
for sending us there.”

Mr. Wade looked surprised.

“That so? Er--did you tell William I sent you?”

“Yes, indeed, and he couldn’t do too much to us--I mean for us,”
answered Dan gravely.

“Humph!” muttered Mr. Wade doubtfully. “Speak of me, did he?”

“Oh, yes, sir! Quite enthusiastically. And we fully agreed with
everything he said,” replied Dan genially.

Mr. Wade stared hard for a moment. Then:

“Well, I must be getting on,” he said. “Good luck to you.”

“Thank you, sir; the same to you. Hope you’ll have a pleasant trip
home.”

It is doubtful if Mr. Wade heard the latter part of the remark, for he
was entering the grocery store in front of which he had hitched. Dan
sprang up.

“You fellows stay here,” he said softly, “and watch for him. Don’t let
him out of your sight. I’ll be back in a minute.”

He hurried down the street and around a corner on which hung a
livery-stable sign. He was soon back.

“Still there?” he asked.

“Yes,” answered Nelson eagerly. “What are you going to do?”

“I’m going to get even with the old codger,” answered Dan grimly, as he
sat down again on the step.

“Where’d you go?” asked Tom.

“Livery stable. Borrowed a carriage wrench. There he comes!”

Mr. Wade issued from the grocery, cast a glance toward his horse, and
then turned up the street. They watched him until he had disappeared
into the bank, half a block away. Then Dan arose and, followed by
his companions, sauntered across the street. For a moment he glanced
carelessly in the grocery-store window. Then, quite as carelessly, he
sauntered over to the buggy. There, with Tom and Nelson in front of
him and apparently in earnest conversation, he drew the wrench from
his pocket and, unobserved, applied it to the nut of the front wheel.
Presently the trio sauntered along a few steps until Dan was beside the
back wheel. A moment later they walked slowly away down the street,
crossed and returned to the hotel. As he walked, from Dan’s jacket
pocket came a clanking sound as the steel wrench jostled a couple of
iron nuts. When they had regained the porch Dan’s look of innocence
gave place to a grin of delight and satisfaction.

“You watch for him. If he comes call me. I’m going to get Bob and our
knapsacks.”

“What do you want the knapsacks for?” asked Tom suspiciously.

“Because it’s more than likely that we’ll want to leave here in a
hurry, my son,” answered Dan gravely.

“Without our dinner?” cried Tom.

“What is dinner to revenge?” asked Dan sweetly.

“But--but--” stammered Tom.

“S-sh!” cautioned Dan. “Not a word above a whisker!”

“But look here, Dan,” said Nelson a bit anxiously, “aren’t you afraid
the old duffer’ll get hurt? Maybe the horse will run away!”

“Have you seen the horse?” asked Dan. “Now keep a watch up the street
and don’t forget to call me if he comes. I wouldn’t miss it for a
thousand dollars!”

“Just the same, I don’t quite like it,” said Nelson when Dan had
disappeared.

“And no dinner!” moaned Tom. “Why couldn’t we let the old idiot alone
until we’d had something to eat?”

Dan returned with the knapsacks and they awaited developments.
Presently Bob joined them, his hands bearing eloquent proof of his
recent occupation. They didn’t tell Bob what was up for fear he might
forbid them to go on with it. Ten minutes passed. The dinner gong rang
and Tom looked restlessly and mutinous.

“I’m going to have my dinner,” he muttered.

“All right,” answered Bob; “let’s go in.”

“Oh, just wait a minute,” begged Dan. “We’ll have more appetite if we
sit here awhile longer. By the way, we saw our old friend, Mr. Abner
Wade, awhile ago, Bob.”

“Yes, you did,” said Bob incredulously.

“Honest! That’s his horse and buggy over there now.”

Bob had to hear about it and ten minutes more passed. Then Tom mutinied
openly.

“I’m going to have my dinner,” he said doggedly. “I’m starved. You
fellows can sit here if you want to, but----”

“Here he comes!” cried Nelson softly.

Tom forgot his hunger, and the expression of rebellious dissatisfaction
on his countenance gave way to a look of pleasurable anticipation. Dan
and Nelson watched silently the approach of Mr. Abner Wade.

“Look here,” demanded Bob suspiciously, “what’s up, you chaps?”

There was no answer, for Mr. Wade was untying his sorrel steed. Tom
giggled hysterically. In climbed the farmer.

“Get ap,” he commanded, and the sorrel horse moved off leisurely. The
boys held their breath. Farther and farther away went Mr. Wade--and
nothing happened! Dan began to look uneasy. Tom’s pale gray eyes opened
wider and wider. And then, just when it seemed that the conspirators
were doomed to disappointment, Nemesis overtook Mr. Abner Wade.

Suddenly, without warning, the front wheel on the far side of the buggy
started off on its own hook and went rolling toward the sidewalk.
Reaching the curb, it toppled over and fell on to the foot of a
passer-by. The passer-by set up a cry of alarm--possibly of anguish. At
the next moment the rear wheel, indignant, perhaps, at the desertion
of its mate, lay down flat in the street. And simultaneously over went
the buggy and out slid Mr. Abner Wade. The sorrel horse, evincing no
alarm, stopped short in his tracks. And the crowd gathered, hiding the
astonished and wrathful face of Mr. Wade and stilling the cries of the
gentleman who had come in contact with the front wheel.

Over on the hotel porch four boys, doubled up with laughter, staggered
into the office, and, led by Dan, passed hurriedly out of a rear door.
And as they went, from the dining room came an appealing odor of
cooked viands. Out on the side street Dan dodged into a livery stable
and rejoined them quickly.

“Let’s go this way,” he gurgled. “I don’t know where it takes us to,
but----”

“Did you do that?” demanded Bob.

“Yes; wasn’t it rich? We didn’t tell you for fear you wouldn’t let us
do it.”

“You chump!” answered Bob. “Why, I’d have helped if you’d told me!”

“It was simply gu-gu-great!” stammered Tom. “Only--say, did you fellows
smell that dinner?”

“Yes, my son,” answered Dan, “but there’s no dinner for us just now. Us
for the broad highway!”

A few minutes later they had left the village behind and were passing
between rolling meadows. Dan took two small articles from his pocket
and shied them, one after another, into a cornfield.

“What were those?” asked Bob.

“Nuts,” answered Dan. “Nuts from the hubs of Abe’s chariot.”

“I suppose he can get more,” said Nelson regretfully.

“Yes, but it’ll take him some time, and they’ll charge him for them.
And I’ll bet that’ll nearly break his heart. Oh, he’s a great joker, is
Abe, but there are others!”

“Where’s this road taking us to?” asked Tom.

“I don’t know, but not toward Sisset, I’ll bet,” said Dan. “Pull out
that lying map of yours, Bob.”

But the map didn’t help much, since they didn’t know which of the
numerous roads they were traveling.

“Let’s see that old compass of yours, Tommy,” demanded Dan. “What’s the
matter with it? Say, it’s gone crazy!”

“Get out! You don’t know how to use it,” said Tom. “Give it here.” He
tapped it smartly on his knee, observed it gravely a moment, studied
the position of the sun, and then announced, “There! That’s north!”

“Then we’re going back home,” said Nelson discouragedly, “straight back
toward New York!”

“Pshaw! We can’t be,” said Bob. “Here, let’s see. Get out, you idiots,
you’re looking at the wrong end of the needle. There’s north and we’re
going northeast by east.”

“Ship ahoy!” murmured Dan. “Sail off the weather bow, sir.”

“Then if we keep on we’ll strike Barrington?” asked Tom.

“Yes, and that means a good hotel, Tommy, and a good dinner. It’s
rather a joke on us, though,” continued Bob. “We had decided to go to
the south shore, and here we are only three or four miles from the
Sound!”

“We’re not that far from water,” said Nelson, pointing to the map.
“Here’s Old Spring Harbor right forninst us here.”

“That’s right. Well, say, then we must be on this road here,” said Bob,
pointing. “If we are, we ought to strike a bridge pretty soon where we
cross this creek, or whatever it is.”

But their doubt was set at rest a moment later when a man in a dogcart
slowed down at their hail and gave them all the information they
desired.

“This is the Barrington road,” he said, “and Barrington station is
about two miles. The town is three miles from here, straight ahead.
There are several hotels there and lots of boarding houses.”

“That man’s a regular cyclopedia,” said Dan when the dogcart was out of
sight.

“He’s a bearer of good tidings,” said Tom thoughtfully.

A mile farther on hunger overcame Tom’s discretion and he partook of
some half-ripe apples, against the advice of the others. But although
the others viewed him apprehensively all the rest of the way, Tom
showed no ill effects, although he had to own up to an uneasiness. The
last two miles of the distance was in sight of the water, and once they
crossed a broad creek which farther inland widened into a small lake.
They rested there awhile and it was close on to four o’clock when,
tired and hungry and warm, they tramped into the town of Barrington and
sought the nearest hotel. Ten minutes later, after they had washed
up, Dan proposed going for a swim. Nelson and Bob consented, but Tom
was not to be persuaded. He sank into an armchair in the lobby in full
sight of a pair of folding doors which opened into the dining room.

“You fellows go ahead,” he said grimly. “I’m going to stay right here.”




CHAPTER VI

WITNESSES A RESCUE AND AN ADDITION TO THE PARTY


After supper Dan reminded the others that they hadn’t written to their
folks about Jerry and they all sought the writing room. Those were the
first letters home, and, of course, there was a good deal to write.
None of them had any trouble in filling eight pages except Tom. Tom
wasn’t much of a letter writer, anyway, and then, besides, he had eaten
a great deal of dinner and was inclined toward slumber. But he managed
to make a strong plea for Jerry Hinkley and to assure his folks that he
was having “a dandy time.” After that he went fast asleep with his head
on the blotting pad.

“Now, look here, you fellows,” said Nelson, the next morning, “of
course this thing of running around the island and not knowing where
you’re going to fetch up is very exciting and all that, but it’s risky.
First thing we know we’ll find ourselves back in Long Island City. I
move that we fix on some definite place and go there.”

“That’s what I think,” said Bob. “Let’s do it.”

So they studied the map again and decided to keep along the north
shore for a while and then strike across the island for the ocean
side. Meanwhile the town of Kingston was settled on as their immediate
destination. Kingston was some eighteen miles distant and they thought
they could reach it that evening. They were on their way again at eight
o’clock, for the day promised to be hot toward noon and they hoped to
be able to reach Meadowville in time for luncheon and lay off there for
a couple of hours.

The Sound, blue and calm in the morning sunlight, was on their left and
remained in sight most of the time. Once or twice their way led along
the very edge of it. They had put some five or six miles behind them at
a quarter to ten and were approaching a place where the road crossed a
bridge. On the right a river wound back through a salt marsh. To the
left, after running under the bridge, it emptied itself into a little
bay. Near the bridge were a number of boat and bath houses, one or two
cottages, and some floats and landings. On one of the landings a number
of boys and men were congregated, and as the four drew near, their
curiosity was aroused. Half the occupants of the float were lying on
their stomachs, apparently trying to see under it, while the rest were
walking excitedly about.

“Come on,” said Dan. “Let’s see what’s up.”

So they quickened their pace, turned off from the road, and made their
way to the float.

“What’s the matter?” asked Dan.

“There’s a dog under here,” explained a youth. “We were throwing
pieces of wood for him and he was fetchin’ them out. Then, first thing
we knew, the current took him somehow and sucked him under the float.
He’s there now. Hear him?”

They listened and presently there came a faint, smothered yelp
from under the planks almost at their feet. By that time half the
inhabitants of the float had joined them, eager to tell all about it.

“How long has he been under there?” asked Bob.

“Ten minutes.”

“Five minutes.”

“Three minutes.”

The answers were varied. The boys hurried over to the side. The tide
was running out hard and the river, flowing through the narrow culvert
under the bridge, made a strong current which swirled against the float
until it tugged at its moorings.

“Here’s where he went under,” explained one of their informants. “We
were throwing sticks for him out there and he was having a bully time.
He was a plucky little chap. Then the current took him and he went
down. And next thing he was yelping like thunder underneath here.”

The float, inch-thick boards spiked to big logs, rested in the water
so that the floor was some six inches above the surface. The dog had
apparently come up underneath, was penned in by the logs, and was
managing to keep his head out of water by hard swimming.

“What kind of a dog is it?” asked Nelson.

“Fox terrier, I guess.”

“Wire-haired terrier.”

“Irish terrier.”

“Well, he’s small, is he?” asked Bob impatiently.

“Yes.” They all agreed as to that. Bob turned to the others.

“Who’s going under?” he asked.

“Let me go,” said Tom. But Dan had already thrown off his coat and
kicked off his shoes.

“Dan’s a better diver than you, Tom,” said Bob. “Let him try it first.
I guess there’s plenty of breathing space under there, Dan.”

“Sure,” answered Dan, struggling out of his shirt. “Anyone heard the
poor little chap lately?”

No one had, but at that moment, as though in answer to Dan’s inquiry, a
faint, gurgling sound came from under the floor.

“There he is,” said Nelson. “I’ll stand here and call to you, Dan. You
want to go under about twelve feet.”

“All right,” said Dan. “If I don’t show up inside of half a minute and
you don’t hear from me, one of you chaps had better come in.”

“All right,” answered Bob; “I’ll be ready.”

Then Dan dropped feet foremost over the edge of the float and went down
out of sight in the rushing green water. A moment after those leaning
over the edge caught a glimpse of a kicking leg. Then several seconds
passed. The crowd on the float listened breathlessly. At last, from
under the boards and a few feet away, came Dan’s voice.

“All right, Nel! Where are you?”

“Here!” called Nelson, his mouth at one of the cracks.

“Must be the next section,” answered Dan’s muffled voice. “Wait a
minute.”

There was a faint splashing sound, silence, and again came Dan’s voice.

“I’ve got him!” he called. “I’m coming out the other side.”

A moment later Dan’s wet head and a half-drowned wire-haired terrier
appeared at the same moment. The dog was held out at arm’s length and
Bob seized him. Others gave their hands to Dan and he was quickly
pulled out on to the float.

“Gee, that water’s cold!” he gasped. “How’s the dog? He was just about
gone when I got to him. He had managed to get one paw into a crevice in
a log, but his head was under water half the time, I guess. Who’s got
him?”

“Here he is,” said Bob. “He’s all right. About scared to death, I
guess, and pretty well soaked.”

“Maybe he’s swallowed some water,” suggested Tom. “Hold him upside down
a minute.”

Bob obeyed and nearly half a pint of salt water streamed out of the
dog’s mouth. After that he seemed much better, but was content for the
moment to lie in Bob’s arms and gasp and shiver, looking up the while
into Bob’s face with an expression which surely meant gratitude. He was
a forlorn little thing when they finally set him down and he feebly
shook himself. The hair was plastered close to his body, and his inch
of tail wagged feebly.

“Who’s dog is he?” asked Nelson.

“I don’t know,” said one of the throng. “He’s been around here for
a couple of days. Don’t believe he belongs to anyone. There isn’t
anything on the collar; I looked.”

Some one brought Dan a couple of towels from one of the bath houses
and he dried himself as best he could. Afterwards he trotted about the
float a minute and along the edge of the little beach.

“Say, he’s a plucky one, he is,” said one of the youths to Nelson.

“Who’s that?” asked Nelson.

“Why, that friend of yours; him that got the dog out.”

“Oh, yes, Dan’s plucky,” answered Nelson. “But that wasn’t any stunt
for Dan. That’s one of the easiest things he does.” And he turned away,
leaving the youth staring hard.

“Well, let’s get on,” said Dan, tying the last shoe lace.

So they started back toward the road, leaving the crowd, which had
grown steadily for the last five minutes, looking admiringly at Dan’s
broad back. When they had reached the road, there was a shout from the
float and they looked back.

“Hey! There comes the dog!” some one called.

And sure enough, there was the terrier close behind them. He apparently
had no doubts as to his welcome. His tiny tail was wagging busily as he
went up to Bob, sniffed at his legs, and then turned and made straight
for Dan, a few feet away.

“Hello,” said Dan; “you remember me, do you?”

For answer the dog placed his front paws on Dan’s knee and looked
inquiringly up into his face.

“I believe he knows you rescued him,” said Bob.

“Of course he does,” said Dan. “You’ve got sense, haven’t you, Towser?”

The terrier sneezed and wagged his tail frantically, pawing at Dan’s
knee.

“Hello; catching cold, are you?” Dan picked him up and snuggled him in
his arms. “That won’t do. Mustn’t catch cold, you know.” The dog licked
Dan’s face and wriggled ecstatically.

“He seems to like you,” said Tom. “Dogs are funny creatures.”

“He’s a nice little dog,” said Dan as he dropped him gently to the
ground again. “I wouldn’t mind having him.”

“Wonder if he really is a stray?” said Nelson.

“Well, come on, fellows; it’s getting late,” said Bob, “and we’re only
a little more than halfway to Meadowville.”

“Now you run along home, Mr. Dog,” said Dan, shaking his finger at
the terrier. The terrier seemed to understand, for his manner became
at once sorrowful and dejected. He watched them go off without a wag
of his tail. Presently Dan stole a backward glance. The terrier was
stealing along behind them some twenty yards back. Dan said nothing.
A few minutes later Bob and Nelson became aware of something trotting
along in the rear. They turned. The terrier stopped with one foot in
the air. His tail wagged conciliatingly.

“Go home!” said Bob sternly.

The dog dropped his head and began to sniff at the ground as though the
last thing in his mind was following them. Nelson and Tom laughed.

“Oh, let him come,” muttered Dan.

“It wouldn’t be fair,” said Bob firmly. “He must belong to some one and
they’d probably feel bad if they lost him.”

“All right,” said Dan. “You get along home, doggie.”

But doggie was busy now following an imaginary scent along the side of
the road.

“Throw a stone at him,” said Tom.

“You do it if you want to,” said Bob.

But Tom didn’t seem to want to. Finally Bob picked up an imaginary
missile and made a motion toward the dog. He didn’t run, but paused
and stared at them with an expression of such surprise and sorrow that
Bob’s heart failed him.

“Oh, come on,” he muttered. “He won’t follow.”

Five minutes later when they reached a turn in the road they looked
back. There stood the terrier where they had left him, still looking
after their retreating forms. The next moment he was lost to sight.

“He was a nice little dog,” said Dan regretfully.

They reached Meadowville without further adventure just before noon,
having made, in spite of the delay, a very creditable morning record.
There was no choice in the matter of hotels, since the village boasted
of but one--a small, white-painted, old-fashioned hostelry standing
with its front steps flush with the village street. A long porch ran
the length of the house, and a dozen armchairs invited to rest. But the
proprietor informed them that dinner was ready and so they made at once
for the washroom, removed the dust of the highway, and subsequently
were conducted into the dining room, already well filled. They had
just finished their soup--all save Tom, who had requested a second
helping--when the proprietor appeared before them.

“Say, did any of you boys bring a dog?” he asked.

“No,” and they shook their heads.

“All right. There’s one out here and I can’t get rid of him. I didn’t
know but he might belong to some of you. I never saw the cur before.”

“Here! Hold on,” cried Dan, jumping up. “Let’s see him.”

They all trooped out into the office. There, nosing excitedly about,
was the wire-haired terrier. When he caught sight of them he stopped,
crouched to the floor, and wagged his bit of tail violently. They broke
into a laugh; all save Dan.

“It’s all right,” said Dan decisively. “That’s my dog.”

He strode over to him. The terrier rolled over on to his back, stuck
all four feet toward the ceiling, and awaited annihilation. But it
didn’t come. Instead, Dan took him into his arms and faced the others.

“I guess he can stay with us now, can’t he?” he asked.

“You bet,” said Bob.




CHAPTER VII

WHEREIN BARRY DISTINGUISHES HIMSELF


They rested until a little after two o’clock, and then, the intensest
heat of a very hot day having passed, they took up their journey again,
the party of four now having become a party of five.

The fifth member had remained on the porch while the boys had eaten
their dinners. There had been some compulsion about it, as a cord
had been tied to his collar and then to the railing. But after the
first minute or two, during which he had evidently labored under the
impression that his newly found friends were about to escape him again,
he had accepted the situation philosophically and had even dozed once
or twice there in the sun. He looked very much better after he had
been released and, surrounded by the boys, had eaten a hearty dinner.
The sun had dried his coat, and the food had apparently restored his
self-respect. A man in whipcord, probably a groom or stableman, paused
on his way out of the hotel.

“That’s a nice-looking dog you’ve got there,” he observed after a
silent contemplation of the terrier. “Where’d you get him, if it’s no
offense, sir?”

Dan hesitated. Then:

“Over near Barrington,” he answered uneasily.

“Thoroughbred, I guess,” said the other questioningly.

Dan nodded carelessly. The man stooped and snapped his fingers.

“Here, boy, come see me. What’s his name, sir?”

“Er--Barry,” stammered Dan.

“Here, Barry!” called the man. But the terrier acted just as though
he’d never heard his name before.

“He looks a lot like Forest Lad, the dog that won so many prizes in New
York last winter,” continued the man. “But he’s a bit thinner across
the breast than him, I guess. A fine-looking dog, though. Want to sell
him?”

“No, I don’t think so,” answered Dan.

“Well, I don’t want him myself, but I guess I could tell you where you
could find a purchaser, and not very far off.”

“He’s not for sale,” said Dan.

“Well, I don’t know as I’d want to sell him if he was mine,” said the
other as he moved off.

“Look here, what did you call him Barry for?” asked Nelson.

“Gee! I had to call him something,” said Dan, “and that’s the first
thing I thought of. I didn’t want that fellow to think I’d stolen the
dog.”

“Well, but what’s Barry mean? What made you think of that?”

“I don’t know,” answered Dan, puzzled.

“I do,” said Tom. “You’d just told the man you got him at Barrington;
see? Barry--Barrington.”

“I guess that was it. Mr. Barry, of Barrington. Well, that isn’t such a
bad name.”

“It’s easy to say,” responded Bob. “Here, Barry.”

But the terrier only wagged his tail in a friendly way.

“He’ll learn his name quick enough,” said Dan. “I wonder, though, what
his real name is.”

“Let’s see if we can find out,” suggested Bob. “We’ll call him all the
names we can think of and see if he answers to any of them.”

So they started in, and the terrier, evidently at a loss to know what
it all meant, laid himself down in the sunlight and observed them with
puzzled eyes. They tried all the usual names they could think of, and
then they started on unusual ones. But when Tom got to Launcelot, Dan
interfered.

“Look here, that will do for you,” he said. “I’m not going to have my
dog called any such names as that. You’ll be calling him Reginald next,
I suppose!”

“What name was that that fellow got off?” questioned Nelson. “Forest
Lad, was it?”

“Yes; maybe that’s his name. Let’s try it. Here, Forest Lad!”

But the terrier only yawned.

“Not the same,” said Nelson. “He doesn’t just look like a dog who would
win prizes, does he?”

“Why not?” demanded Dan indignantly. “He’s a mighty fine-looking dog, I
tell you!”

“Even if his name is Barry,” laughed Tom.

“Well, we’ve given him plenty of chances to choose a name to suit
himself,” said Bob, “and he hasn’t done it. So I guess Barry will have
to do.”

“It’s a good name,” said Dan stoutly. “Isn’t it, Barry?”

Barry wagged his tail. That seemed to settle it.

When, presently, they took the road again, Barry remained at Dan’s
heels for the first half mile or so, like a well-trained dog. But when,
after one or two experimental trips into the bushes, Barry found that
his new master was not a strict disciplinarian, he cut loose. After
that he was everywhere. Over walls, through fences, into this field
and into that, chasing birds, scratching for field mice, and treeing
squirrels, Barry had, as Dan put it, the time of his innocent young
life. But he always came instantly when called, no matter how far away
he might be; came like a small white streak of lightning, tongue out
and eyes sparkling merrily. He was a source of constant entertainment,
and the seven miles which lay between Meadowville and Kingston passed
underfoot almost before they knew it. As they came in sight of the
latter town a brisk shower began. For an hour past the clouds had been
gathering, big and heavy, overhead, and now the thunder began to crash.
Luckily they had but a short distance to go and they covered it in
record time, Barry, barking hysterically, leading the flying column by
six yards. They found a temporary refuge in a livery stable on the edge
of town, and the terrier put in an exciting ten minutes hunting rats in
the stalls. The stable keeper, a large, good-natured man, offered Dan
$10 on the spot for the dog and when that offer was declined raised the
price to $15. Dan was highly pleased at the compliment paid to Barry,
but refused to part with him.

Presently the shower held up for a moment and they thanked their host
and scampered for the nearest hotel. Here they met with difficulties.
The proprietor didn’t take dogs. Dan argued and offered to pay extra,
but the hotel man was obdurate. There was nothing for it but to try
elsewhere, and so out they went again in a pelting rain and hurried
down the street to the next hostelry. Here Barry was more welcome; he
could sleep in the smoking room or in the stable. Dan decided in favor
of the smoking room, borrowed a piece of cord from the clerk, and
hitched Barry to the leg of a writing table. After supper, the rain
having held up again, they went out and purchased a leather leash.
Barry took very kindly to this and was for chewing it up until Dan
explained the purpose of it to him. They played cards in the smoking
room until bedtime, and then, having made Barry comfortable for the
night on a piece of bagging, went to their rooms and, as was becoming
after an eighteen-mile tramp, fell promptly asleep.

Dan and Nelson slept together. It was at about two o’clock in the
morning--although that fact wasn’t discovered until later--that Dan
awoke to find Nelson shaking him by the arm.

“Wha--what’s the row?” asked Dan sleepily.

“Barry’s raising Cain downstairs,” answered Nelson. “Listen!”

Their room was on the second floor near the stairway, and through
the open transom floated a startling medley of sounds, frantic barks
succeeded by blood-curdling growls, scurrying footsteps, and the crash
of an overturned chair.

“That’s never Barry!” cried Dan.

“I’ll bet you it is,” said Nelson. “We’d better go down and see,
anyway.”

But Dan was already bumping into furniture in an endeavor to find his
trousers. Nelson followed him, but he had more difficulty than his
friend in finding his apparel, and Dan was out of the room and down the
stairs before Nelson’s search was finished.

Dan took the stairs two or three at a time; he wasn’t particular;
and when he reached the office a strange sight greeted his startled
eyes. The one gaslight was burning dimly, but it afforded sufficient
illumination to show what was going on. On the office counter crouched
a man. He wasn’t a very big man, nor was he very prepossessing. His
clothes had seen much wear and he was badly in need of a shave. Also he
was plainly frightened. And there was cause. The cause, with some two
feet of brand-new leather leash hanging to his collar, leaped excitedly
at the counter in a businesslike effort to get at the occupant of it,
and every time he leaped he either barked or growled. Dan took in the
situation in an instant, but he didn’t pretend to understand it. The
hotel proprietor, however, who appeared on the scene at that moment,
bearing evidences of a hurried dressing, understood it at once.

[Illustration: “Leaped excitedly at the counter.”]

“Barry!” called Dan. “Come here, sir! Come here!”

“Let him alone,” said the proprietor. “He knows his business, that dog.
What are you doing in here?” he asked sternly of the man on the counter.

“Nothin’,” was the answer. “Call off that beast, can’t yer?”

“You’ll stay where you are a minute, I guess,” answered the proprietor
grimly. Then he strode to the door, unlocked it, and passed out to the
porch.

“Hi, Brooks! Brooks!” he called loudly. “O Brooks!”

From somewhere near at hand came an answering hail. Then things began
to happen indoors. Barry, aware of Dan’s presence, had stopped his
barking and leaping and was watching his prey warily from the distance
of a few feet. Dan also had his eyes on the man, but for all that he
wasn’t prepared for what happened. When the answering hail came the man
on the counter gathered himself quickly and made a flying leap over
Barry’s head. The front door was guarded by the proprietor, and Dan
stood between the counter and the door leading to the washroom and the
back of the hotel. Only the stairway seemed unguarded, and toward that
the man fled, Barry after him and gaining at every leap. Dan set up a
shout and followed Barry. At that moment Nelson, having finally got
into his trousers, appeared on the landing halfway up.

“Stop him!” cried Dan. “Stop him!”

The pursued caught sight of Nelson at the same moment and his hand flew
toward his pocket. Nelson drew aside warily, but as the other plunged
past he threw out his leg and the next moment Nelson and the man and
Barry were all mixed up in a writhing heap on the landing. But Dan was
up there in a second, Barry was thrown aside, and in a twinkling the
battle was decided.

“Grab that hand,” panted Nelson. “He’s got a revolver.”

Dan obeyed and wrested the implement away. It proved, however, to be
not a revolver, but a heavy, leather-covered billy about six inches
long. After that the man underneath gave up the struggle and lay quiet
until Mr. Brooks, who turned out to be the town constable, yanked him
to his feet.

By that time most of the occupants of the hotel, including Tom and
Bob, had assembled in various stages of undress, and the hubbub was
considerable. Tom was wildly excited and stammered question after
question. But no one paid any heed to him. A bag well filled with
plated silverware, gleaned from the dining room, into which apartment
the burglar had made his way by forcing a window, was found back of
the counter. The officer took the names of about twenty persons, most
of whom had seen nothing of the affair, and the unfortunate man was
haled away to the jail. After that, for more than an hour, all the
male occupants of the house sat around in the office and discussed and
rediscussed the affair. Naturally, Barry and Nelson and Dan came in
for much praise, Barry especially. Everyone had to pet him, and a less
sensible dog might have had his head turned. But Barry took his honors
modestly; in fact, he seemed rather bored by the admiration bestowed
upon him. Along toward four o’clock the excitement had died down
sufficiently to permit of the occupants returning to bed, and this
they did, Tom bewailing loudly his ill luck in having arrived on the
scene too late.

“If I had bu-bu-bu-been there,” began Tommy.

“If you had been there,” interrupted Bob unkindly, “the thief would
have got away while you were choking over it.”




CHAPTER VIII

IN WHICH POVERTY CLAIMS THE FOUR


The next day was Thursday. Nelson declared it wasn’t; that it was
only Wednesday; but the blue, red, and yellow calendar advertising
Somebody’s Smokeless Powder, which hung in the hotel office,
contradicted him. But whatever day it was it was anything but a
pleasant one. Last evening’s thundershower had resolved itself into a
steady, persistent drizzle. The boys woke late, in consequence of the
early morning diversions, and when they looked at the sky and the muddy
road they sighed. It was Tom who dared voice what all were thinking.

“This is no kind of weather to go messing around the country in,” he
said disgustedly. “Besides, there’s Dan’s health to think of. Why, he’s
just out of bed, as you might say!”

“A little rain won’t hurt,” said Dan half-heartedly.

“Not a bit,” agreed Bob. “It--it would be rather fun. We haven’t tried
our ponchos yet, you know.”

“I fear you’re lazy, Tommy,” added Nelson sorrowfully.

“Lazy nothing! Look at that street out there and then think what the
country road would be like! I’ll tell you one thing, if you fellows go,
you go without little Tommy.”

“Oh, well, if you won’t go along,” said Nelson, in a somewhat relieved
tone.

“If you want to make us miss a day,” continued Dan.

“I don’t think we ought to break up the crowd,” said Bob. “I don’t
believe our folks would like that. So if Tommy won’t go, why, we’ll all
stay here to-day and go on to-morrow. What do you say?”

“Oh, pshaw,” said Tom disgustedly; “you’re all just as anxious to stay
as I am! You make me tired!”

The others grinned.

“Only consideration for your welfare, Tommy, keeps us here,” said Dan.

“Then you can ju-ju-just let my wu-wu-wu-welfare alone,” answered Tom
aggrievedly.

“Not for worlds, old chap! Come on downstairs and let’s see if we can’t
find something to do.”

They went down and rescued Barry from the admiring attention of the
populace, which, having learned by this time of the early morning
adventure, had flocked in to view the scene and the heroes.

“I wonder what they’ll do to him,” said Dan, in reference to the
marauder, as they pushed their way through the crowd about the office
door.

“Put him in prison, I suppose,” answered Bob.

“Reckon they won’t do anything to him just at present,” volunteered the
driver of the station ’bus who was standing near by.

“Why?” asked Dan.

“’Cause,” said the driver with a chuckle, “they ain’t got him.”

“Ain’t got him!” repeated Dan ungrammatically.

“No; he broke away from Joe Brooks last night just this side of the
jail. Joe fired at him and _he_ says he hit him, but I don’t believe
Joe could hit a barn door, let alone a man runnin’ like all git out!
Anyway, the feller never stopped runnin’; I reckon he’s runnin’ yit!”

“Well,” said Dan, as they went out on to the porch with Barry at
heel, “of course he was a thief and all that, and he had one of the
toughest-looking faces I ever saw, but, just the same, I’m kind of glad
he got away. He looked just about half-starved, Bob. And I’m not stuck
on helping to put anyone in prison. Maybe he’ll behave himself after
this.”

“Well, from what I’ve seen of the tableware,” said Bob dryly, “I guess
the chap’s better off without it. I don’t believe he could have got
thirty cents for the lot!”

Presently they went to writing letters, and even Tom, with the burglar
episode to tell of, managed to fill two pages. Afterwards they were
requested to bring Barry out to the office, and, doing so, found the
proprietor and a couple of dozen others assembled waiting for them.
Barry was placed on the top of the office desk and the proprietor
made him a speech of thanks, frequently interrupted by laughter and
applause, and when he had finished presented to the hero a new collar
and leash. Dan, speaking for Barry, responded somewhat embarrassedly
and the new collar was placed around the dog’s neck. Then everyone went
into dinner in high good humor.

“What did you do with the old leash, Dan?” asked Tom.

“It’s upstairs. Why? It’s busted, you know.”

“I know it is. Give it to me?”

“Sure. What for?”

“Oh, nothing much,” answered Tom.

But after dinner he went up and got it and disappeared for a while.
When he returned he proudly exhibited a black leather cardcase and
three braided leather watch fobs.

“Where’d you get those?” asked Bob.

“At the leather store. I took the leash back and told the man it was no
good; broke the first time it was used. I said I’d take something else
in exchange.”

“Well, I’ll be blowed!” gasped Dan. “And he did it?”

“He didn’t want to at first. Said he hadn’t sold the leash to me. But
I told him you couldn’t come yourself because you had to stay at the
hotel and hold the dog by the collar to keep him from running away.
Then I offered to take ninety-five cents’ worth of other goods, and
that fetched him; the leash was a dollar, you know. So I got this
cardcase for myself in payment for my trouble, you see, and brought
those fobs for you chaps. Swell, aren’t they?”

“Oh, they’re terribly dressy,” answered Dan sarcastically. “I couldn’t
think of wearing mine on ordinary occasions, Tom.”

They tried to tease him about the transaction, but Tom didn’t mind a
bit; he was quite satisfied with his dickering.

“If you fellows don’t like the fobs,” he told them, “you can go back
and change them. He’s got some dandy things there.”

For the rest of the afternoon they played cards in the smoking room,
and Dan and Nelson won overwhelmingly. Then they took Barry out for
a few minutes of exercise, and Bob squandered more money on souvenir
postals and spent half an hour after supper trying to think of
something to write on them. Dan and Nelson unearthed a box of dominoes
and had an exciting game. Tom went to sleep in an armchair over a New
York paper, and Barry, comfortably curled up in his lap, mingled his
snores with Tom’s.

Friday dawned fair and cool. After breakfast they packed their baggage,
paid their bills--which were suspiciously moderate--and, with the
proprietor’s hearty “Come again, boys!” in their ears, swung off
down the street. When they reached the country road they found that
the rain had done a world of good. The dust was laid and the roadbed
was hard and firm. Barry was in fine fettle and kept them laughing at
his wild sorties after birds and chipmunks. From Kingston their route
led diagonally across the island toward the south shore, which they
intended to reach that evening. By this time their muscles were well
hardened and they reeled the miles off without conscious effort.

They had brought lunch with them in case, as seemed probable, they
should find no hotel on the way. And so when, at a little before noon,
they reached the edge of a big pond where a cluster of willows along
the edge offered inviting shade, they pitched camp.

“I tell you what let’s do,” said Nelson.

“Go ahead,” said Bob lazily from where he was stretched out on his back.

“Let’s have a swim before lunch. What do you say?”

They said various things, the tenor of which was that Nelson sometimes
exhibited almost human intelligence and in the present case had evolved
a brilliant idea.

“But we can’t undress here,” said Bob. “Too many autos and carriages
and things going along this road. Let’s keep along here by the edge
until we get away from the public.”

So they took up their packs and followed the margin of the pond and
after a few minutes found themselves in a thick grove several hundred
feet from the highway. Here they dropped their knapsacks, undressed,
and donned their trunks, Barry viewing proceedings with eager eyes. And
when they raced down to the water he leaped and barked ecstatically.

“I should think,” said Nelson severely, “that you would have had enough
water to last you for some time, Mr. Dog.”

“Oh, that was salt water, wasn’t it, Barry?” answered Dan. “Let’s see
if he’ll come in. Here, Barry! Sic ’em!”

Barry settled the question in an instant, plunging in beside Dan and
swimming about excitedly in circles and biting at the floating twigs
and leaves. The water was quite warm and, as Dan said, reminded them of
Lake Chicora, by whose shore they had all spent the preceding summer.
But it wasn’t deep enough for Dan, to whom bathing meant diving, and he
set off along the shore in search of deeper water. The others followed,
Barry retiring to the shore and barking joyfully as he trotted along.
There were some residences on the opposite side of the lake, almost
half a mile away, and Bob pointed them out.

“Maybe they don’t allow bathing here,” he said.

“Maybe they don’t,” laughed Nelson; “but it’s too late now. There goes
Dan; he’s found a tree trunk to dive off of.”

They had a fine time for half an hour and then swam back in search of
the place they had left.

“I don’t see anything that looks like it,” said Tom.

“Nor I,” said Dan. “Say, wouldn’t it be a joke if we couldn’t find our
clothes?”

“A mighty poor one,” answered Bob. “We’d ought to have made Barry stay
and look after them. Then we’d known where they were.”

“Oh, they’re right along here somewhere,” said Nelson. “We went in
opposite that big white house over there, the one with the high chimney
on the outside.”

“Huh!” said Dan. “That’s a half mile away. Any place over here is
opposite. Let’s go out here and look around.”

They did, and they looked a long time. But finally there was a shout
from Tommy, who had meandered off on his own hook.

“Here they are!” he called. Then, a moment later,

“We’ve been ru-ru-ru-ru-robbed!” yelled Tom.

“_What?_” cried Dan.

“Oh, it’s one of Tommy’s jokes,” muttered Nelson anxiously as they
raced toward where he was standing. But it wasn’t. It needed but one
glance to prove that. The contents of the knapsacks were scattered
about under the trees, the lunches were gone, and their clothes had
evidently been handled. Bob picked up his coat and thrust his hand
into a pocket. Then he seized his trousers and went through the same
performance. And the others followed suit as though it had been a game
of follow-your-leader. Then they all dropped the garments and looked at
each other blankly.

“Stripped!” said Dan.

“Every blessed cent gone,” said Nelson. “Watch too!”

“I had twenty-six dollars,” said Tom mournfully.

“You shouldn’t carry so much wealth about with you,” answered Dan with
a grin. “It ought to be a lesson to you. I only had eight.”

“You shut up!” growled Tom.

“Well, whoever they were,” said Bob ruefully, “they made a pretty good
haul. I had about fifteen dollars. And they got my watch too. But it
was only a cheap one.”

“Mine wasn’t,” said Nelson. “It cost forty dollars. Say, what’s the
matter with Barry?”

The terrier was running excitedly about, smelling and sniffing and
giving vent to short yelps. Once or twice he started off through the
trees as though nothing could stop him. But each time he turned back,
whining, and began sniffing the ground again.

“Barry’s got the fellow’s scent,” said Nelson.

“And the fellow’s got every cent of mine,” said Dan.

“Gee!” said Tom sorrowfully, “I don’t see anything to ju-ju-joke about!”

“Hello!” Bob stooped and picked up a piece of paper. It was part of an
envelope which had inclosed a letter to Nelson and had reposed in that
youth’s coat pocket. On the blank side a few words had been laboriously
scrawled with a pencil.

“‘I gess this wil tech you Not to But in,’” read Bob slowly.

“What’s that mean?” asked Dan.

“Search me,” said Nelson. “Who’s butted in?”

“Du-du-don’t you su-su-su-see?” cried Tom. “I-i-i-it’s the fu-fu-fellow
that su-su-stole the su-su-su-su----!”

“Silver! That’s right, Tommy!” cried Dan. “That’s just who did it. And
I said yesterday I was glad he’d got away! I wish one of you chaps
would kick me!”

“He was probably hiding in the woods here and saw us undress,” said
Bob. “I wish----”

“I wish I had hold of him again,” said Nelson angrily. “What’ll we do?”

“Get to the nearest town as soon as we can and report it to the
police,” replied Bob.

“Where is the nearest town? Couldn’t we find a telephone somewhere
around? How about those houses over there?”

“It would be a good two miles around there, I guess,” said Bob,
consulting his map. “And there’s some sort of a town about a mile and a
half ahead of us. We’d better light out for there.”

“All right,” said Nelson.

“I’m glad he left us our clothes, anyhow,” said Dan. “And look, maybe
we can find which way he went. Here, Barry, seek him out! Get after
him, sir!”

Barry whined and sniffed and ran around, but every time he started off
on the trail he lost it and had to come back.

“Seems to me,” said Tom, “if I had a watchdog I’d make him watch.”

“Maybe he’s lost his watch, like the rest of us,” said Nelson
soothingly. “Come on; I’m ready. What’s the odds, anyhow? It’s all in
the day’s work--or rather walk. We’ll feel fine after we’ve had some
lunch.”

“Lunch!” sniffed Tom, struggling with his trousers. “Lunch! Where are
we going to get it, I’d like to know?”

“Oh, we’ll find something in this village Bob’s talking about.”

“Wu-wu-wu-well, s’posing we du-du-do? How we gu-gu-gu-going to
pu-pu-pu-pay for it?”

“By Jove!” muttered Nelson blankly. “I hadn’t thought of that!”




CHAPTER IX

SHOWS THEM BOTH HUNGRY AND SATISFIED


It was a very subdued quartet that took the road to Clearwater, the
nearest village, although, after they had walked along in silence for
a few hundred yards, Dan’s face began to clear and the corners of his
mouth stole upward as he glanced at his companions. I don’t think
that Barry meant to seem heartless or unsympathetic, but his conduct
would have looked, to one unacquainted with his real nature, decidedly
callous. He chased birds and squirrels, tried to climb trees, dug for
mice, and barked and scampered just as though there was no such thing
as misfortune in all the world. And only Dan, I think, understood and
sympathized with him.

They walked rapidly and before long reached Clearwater. In spite of
the fact that the map made it appear to be quite a village, Clearwater
proved to be merely a collection of some half dozen houses surrounding
the junction of two roads. There was neither store nor hotel there.
They asked information at the first house they came to. To find an
officer, they were told, it would be necessary to go on to Millford,
two miles beyond, although if they liked they could telephone
there. Bob thanked the man and was conducted to the telephone. In a
few minutes he had supplied the officers at Millford with all the
information possible and had described the stolen property. He promised
also to see the officers when he reached Millford. After that there was
nothing to do but keep on for that town.

“We’ll find a telegraph office there,” said Bob, “and Dan can wire his
father for some money. Then we’ll go to a hotel, tell them how we’re
fixed, and get them to trust us until the money comes.”

As no one had a better one to offer, that plan was adopted. But it
was weary work, that last two miles. They were all extremely hungry;
indeed, Tom looked so famished that the others almost expected to see
him expire before their eyes. Nelson became temporarily unbalanced, if
Dan is to be believed, and muttered incoherent things about roast beef
and mashed potatoes. It was three o’clock and after when they at last
wandered into Millford. It was a tiny village, but there were stores
there, a telegraph office, and a hotel. They came to the telegraph
office first, and so they went in and Dan wrote his telegram.

    “Money stolen. Please wire fifty dollars this office. All
     well.      DAN.”

That was the message, and, as Bob couldn’t suggest any improvements,
it was handed to the operator. The latter counted the words.

“Twenty-five cents,” he said.

“Send collect, please,” said Dan.

“What’s your address?”

“We haven’t any yet. We’re going to the hotel.”

“Hotel’s closed; closed first of the month.”

Dan looked at Bob, and Bob looked at Dan; and then they looked at
Nelson and Tom.

“Closed!” muttered Dan finally.

“Is there a boarding house here we can go to?” asked Bob.

“I don’t believe so; never heard of any,” answered the operator.

“Well--you’ll send that message, won’t you?” asked Dan anxiously. The
operator hesitated.

“It’s against the rules,” he objected. “If you lived here I might.”

“It will be all right,” said Dan. “It’s to my father, and that’s his
address there. We’ve lost every cent of our money, and I don’t know how
we’re going to get any more unless that message reaches him.”

“Well--all right. I guess I can send it for you. You guarantee charges,
do you?”

“Yes,” said Dan. “And we’ll come around in the morning for the answer.
I’m awfully much obliged.”

“Where is the nearest place we could get lodgings and something to
eat?” asked Bob.

“I don’t believe there’s a place nearer than Port Adams, and that’s
about four miles from here. There’s a hotel there.”

“Gosh!” muttered Tom.

They thanked the operator again and went out. Then began a search for a
boarding place that lasted for half an hour. They heard of one lady who
had a room which she sometimes rented and they went to her posthaste.
But the room was taken. At the end of the half hour they had seemingly
exhausted the possibilities of Millford and were still without shelter.

“How about the police folks?” asked Tom.

“I’d forgotten all about them,” answered Bob. “Maybe they’ll let us
sleep in the police station.”

But the police station proved to be only a couple of small rooms in
the townhall. They told their story all over again, gave their home
addresses, and departed with little hope of ever seeing their property
again. For it was evident that the officer suspected them of trying
to work a hoax on him, and his promises to look for the robber didn’t
sound very enthusiastic. Out on the sidewalk they held a council of
war. Bob was for keeping on to Port Adams where the hotel was, but none
of the others agreed with him.

“I couldn’t walk four miles farther this afternoon if there was a
million dollars in it,” asserted Dan.

And Nelson and Tom echoed the sentiment.

“Besides,” said Nelson, “maybe if we went there they wouldn’t take us
at the hotel, and we wouldn’t be any better off.”

“And we’d have to walk back here in the morning to get the money,”
added Tom.

“All right,” said Bob. “What will we do, then?”

But no one offered a suggestion. Instead they stood and stared
dejectedly across the street. Even Barry appeared to have lost spirit;
there was a weary air in the way he held his stump of a tail. On the
other side of the street a fence was placarded with highly colored
circus posters. “Millford, Sept. 9,” was the legend they bore. That was
to-morrow.

“If we get that money,” said Nelson, “let’s stay and see the circus.”

“Never mind about the circus,” said Bob irritably. “What we’ve got to
do is to find some place to sleep.”

“And something to eat,” added Tom sadly.

“Let’s sleep outdoors,” said Dan. “It’s going to be fairly warm
to-night, I guess.”

“But how about food?” asked Bob.

“Let’s go to a house and ask them to feed us,” suggested Tom. “Tell
them we’ll pay in the morning.”

“No, sir,” answered Bob. “That’s begging, and I won’t beg.”

“Nor I,” said Nelson.

“It isn’t begging if you pay for it,” said Tom indignantly.

“Well, it sounds a whole lot like it. I’d rather go without eating.”

“We might draw lots,” said Dan, “and eat one of us.”

“Wish I was home,” muttered Tom.

He thrust his hands deep into his trousers pockets and stared
disconsolately across at the circus posters. Then suddenly his face
lighted, he uttered a gurgle, and yanked his left hand out of his
pocket.

“_Lu-lu-lu-look!_” he sputtered.

They looked. There in Tom’s palm lay a shining half dollar.

“Where’d you get it?” they cried.

“Lu-lu-left pocket. I pu-pu-pu-put it there du-du-day before
yu-yu-yu-yesterday and forgot all abub-ub-ub--all about it!”

The others searched their own pockets frantically, but were not so
lucky.

“Say, that’s great!” cried Nelson.

“You bet!” said Dan. “Are you--are you sure it’s good?”

“Course it’s good!” said Tom.

“Gee! Doesn’t half a dollar look big when you’re starving?” said Dan
softly. It was passed around from one to another, all examining it as
though it were a quite unusual object. Bob sighed as it left his hand.

“It certainly looks good to me,” he muttered.

“Now, what’ll we do with it?” asked Tom. “I don’t suppose anyone will
give us four suppers for half a dollar.”

“We might get two for that price,” suggested Dan. “Two of us could get
supper and bring something out to the others.”

“Well, don’t let Tom go,” laughed Nelson.

“If only there was some sort of a restaurant in this idiotic place!”
sighed Bob.

“I tell you!” cried Dan. “We’ll go to a store and buy some grub, pitch
a camp, and cook it ourselves! We can get a lot for fifty cents!”

“Good scheme!” said Bob.

“Fine!” said Nelson.

“Swell!” agreed Tom. “Come on!”

They sought the main street and the stores. At a market they purchased
a pound of round steak for twenty-five cents, and, in response to Dan’s
hints, the man threw in a good-sized bone for Barry. Farther on they
found a grocery store and spent five cents for a loaf of bread, seven
cents for a quarter of a pound of butter, six cents for a quart of
milk--the groceryman good-naturedly supplying a bottle for it--and five
cents for half a dozen cookies. Thus armed they sought a place to pitch
their camp. Five minutes of walking took them out of the village, and
they soon espied a knoll which promised a suitable spot. They crossed a
field, climbed the knoll, and found an ideal location on the western
side of it. The trees were sparse, but, there was enough undergrowth
here and there to serve as wind-break during the night. The four were
once more themselves and in the highest spirits. Bob took command, and
under his direction the others were set to finding fuel, whittling
sticks for forks, and building the fireplace. By five o’clock the
flames were sending a column of purple smoke up into the still evening
air, and the slice of steak, cut into four portions, was sizzling over
the fire on as many pointed sticks. And Barry was busy with his bone.
In short, life was worth living again.

Now, if you have never spent the day out of doors and supped at night
in the open with the wood smoke floating about you, you can have no
very definite idea of how good that meal tasted to the Four. The steak
was done to a turn, brown and crisp outside, burned a little about
the edges as every camper’s steak should be, and inside slightly pink
and so full of juice that a napkin, had one happened along, would
have done a land-office business! And then the bread! Well, I suppose
it was just an ordinary loaf, but--it didn’t taste so! There was a
beautiful golden-brown crust all over the outside that broke with a
brittle and appetizing sound. And under the crust was the whitest,
softest, freshest, sweetest bread that ever made the thought of butter
a sacrilege. I don’t mean by that that the butter wasn’t used; it was,
lavishly as long as it lasted; after it was gone it was never missed.
The cookies, too, and the milk, ridiculously rich milk it was, were
simply marvelous. Really, it was astonishing how much better Long
Island food was than any other! And Barry, flat on the ground, both
paws on the big bone and teeth busy, grunted accordantly.

Before them as they sat in a semicircle about the little fire the
hill sloped down to a broad pasture, here and there overgrown with
bushes and dotted at intervals with low trees. Beyond the pasture was
a swamp closed in on its farther side by a line of woods looking dark
against the saffron evening sky. To their right, perhaps a quarter of
a mile distant, was a farmhouse and buildings, and from the house a
thin filament of blue smoke arose. Now and then a voice reached them;
sometimes a dog barked afar off and Barry lifted his head and listened;
once the _chug-chug_ of an automobile, speeding along the road behind
them, disturbed the silence.

Conversation was fitful at the best during that meal, for it must be
remembered that they had had no lunch and had done a day’s march.
And after the last morsel had disappeared no one complained of
being uncomfortably full. But they had fared well and there were no
complaints.

“I don’t know,” said Bob, “but what we’d ought to have kept something
for the morning.”

“Oh, never mind the morning,” answered Dan. “We’ll have plenty of
money then and we’ll breakfast in state.”

They fed the fire to keep it alive for the sake of its cozy glow and
then leaned back on their elbows and talked. Barry abandoned his bone
with a satisfied sigh and curled himself up by Dan’s side. Presently
the sunlight faded and a crescent moon glowed brightly behind the
knoll. The chill of evening began to make itself felt, and now they
built up the fire for more practical purposes and edged themselves
nearer. Before it got quite dark they busied themselves preparing for
the night. They cut evergreen branches and piled them high in the lee
of a clump of bushes. The packs were opened and each fellow donned as
much of the extra clothing as was possible, the ponchos serving as
blankets. Toward half-past eight they settled themselves for the night,
burrowing deep into the fragrant branches and lying as close together
as was compatible with comfort. The little fire danced and gleamed, the
crickets sang loudly from all sides, and the slender silver moon sailed
overhead in a purple sky.

Then Tom fell off to sleep, and the crickets’ song was quickly drowned.




CHAPTER X

IN WHICH NELSON SEES STRANGE VISIONS


Although it had been fairly mild when they went to sleep, by early
morning the chill had crept under the rubber blankets, and the four
sleepers twisted and turned uneasily, conscious of the cold and yet too
sleepy to awake. Nelson was on the outside and therefore less protected
than the others. At length, unable to endure it any longer, he sat up
and looked about him with heavy eyes. It was beginning to get light,
and the crescent moon, far down in the sky, was becoming dim. The other
three slept on. Barry raised his head above Dan’s shoulder and glanced
gravely across at Nelson. Then, with a sigh, he curled up again and
went back to sleep.

Nelson’s legs were stiff and aching, and after a moment of indecision
he got up and began to walk around. That warmed him up considerably,
and presently he paused and looked about him over the sleeping world.
Back of the knoll a rosy tinge was creeping upward. The farmhouse
showed no signs of life as yet and the chimney sent no smoke into the
gray sky. And everything was very still.

And then, of a sudden, from somewhere came a strange sound, a sound
that was utterly at variance with the calm hush of early morning.
Nelson puzzled over it for several moments. It was a sound made up of
many lesser sounds, the sound of moving wheels, of creaking wagons,
of heavy footfalls, of rattling harness, of clanking metal, and, so
Nelson thought, of voices. He looked about him in bewilderment. At the
farmhouse not a sign of life showed, nor did the sound seem to come
from that direction. Nelson turned toward the summit of the little
knoll and listened intently. Then he hurried to the top and--rubbed his
eyes in amazement at what he saw. For a moment he thought that he was
still asleep and dreaming.

Across the field which lay between him and the road lumbered a huge
shape, black against the lightening sky. For a second it was formless,
gigantic in that half-light. Then Nelson’s eyes served him better, and
he saw that the approaching object was an elephant and that beside
it walked a man. Yet surely he was dreaming! What could an elephant
be doing in the middle of that country field at five o’clock in the
morning? And then, as he looked again toward the road, he found the
explanation. For now, coming from the direction of the town, emerging
from behind the trees which hid the road there and turning into the
field, came a procession of wagons and horses and--yes, surely that
strange-looking thing was a camel! It was all clear enough now. The
circus had arrived!

Several sections of the fence had been removed, and one by one, with
urging and coaxing, the big boxlike wagons were being driven into the
field. By this time the elephant had reached the end of his journey,
and the attendant had brought him to a stop some fifty yards away from
where Nelson stood and was filling and lighting his pipe. The wagons
lumbered, creaking and jolting, across the grass and were drawn up in
two rows. Then other wagons appeared, flat and low these, and made
straight for the middle of the field. And after that so many things
happened at once and with such amazing celerity that Nelson could only
stand there on the knoll and stare.

As if by magic a small tent arose at the end of the twin lines of
wagons. Dozens of men hurried hither and thither in squads, carrying
canvas, ropes, poles, with never a sign of confusion. The camel,
its ridiculous head moving from side to side superciliously, was
driven over to where the elephant stood. Men with stakes and mallets
followed, and in a minute the two animals were tethered. By that time
the larger tent was lying stretched over the ground ready for raising.
Fires gleamed near the smaller tent, and there came a rattling of
pots and pans. Still another heap of canvas was dragged from a wagon
and stretched out. Unconsciously Nelson had moved down the hill. The
elephant watched him expectantly with his little eyes as he passed.
Nelson kept on until he stood just outside the scene of operations.
They were raising the big tent now. One end of it suddenly arose
into air; men shouted and hurried; ropes were hauled and tightened,
slackened and made fast; the great mallets rose and fell with
resounding blows; inch by inch, foot by foot, the great gleaming canvas
house took form. From somewhere came an appealing odor of coffee and
frying bacon, and Nelson suddenly discovered that he was very hungry.
He walked toward the fires.

Those who passed him looked at him curiously but offered no word of
remonstrance. The sun came up behind the distant hills with a leap and
glittered wanly on the tarnished gold carvings of the chariots and
on the pots and pans of the busy cooks. There were two of these, and
a youth of about sixteen was acting as helper. As Nelson approached,
the youth disappeared into the tent with a basket of tin plates and
cups. The flaps were up and Nelson could see a long table formed of
planks in sections resting on wooden trestles. The boy was setting the
table for breakfast. The stoves, of which there were two, were queer
round cylinders of sheet iron which were fed with wood through doors
in front. On one a great copper caldron was already beginning to throw
off steam. On the other an immense frying pan was filled with bacon,
which, as fast as it was done, was removed to other pans upon a near-by
trestle. A wagon was backed up close at hand, and as they worked, the
cooks went to it for salt and pepper and other ingredients, which they
took from drawers and cupboards with which the rear of the wagon was
fitted. It was all very astonishing and interesting to Nelson, and he
looked and looked until presently one of the cooks saw him and spoke.

“Hello,” he said.

“Good morning,” answered Nelson.

“You’re up early,” continued the other, removing the cover from the
caldron for an instant and slamming it back into place. He was a
thickset man with a humorous, kindly face and the largest hands Nelson
thought he had ever seen.

“Not as early as you,” said Nelson smilingly.

“No, that’s so. It’s our business, you see. Had your breakfast?”

“Not yet.”

“Have a cup of coffee, then?”

Nelson hesitated.

“Got plenty of it?”

“About four gallons,” was the answer. “Here, it’ll warm you up. Toss me
a cup, Joe.”

The other cook obeyed without taking his attention from the sizzling
bacon, and Nelson’s friend held it under a faucet at the bottom of the
caldron.

“There you are. Now you want some sugar. We haven’t got the milk out
yet. O Jerry! Bring a spoon and some sugar.”

“Thank you,” said Nelson as he accepted the tin cup of steaming coffee.
“It smells mighty good.”

“Well, it ain’t the best in the world,” answered the cook cheerfully,
“but it tastes pretty good on a cold morning. You, Jerry! Oh, here you
are. Pass the sugar to the gentleman.”

Nelson turned and for the first time had sight of the boy’s face. The
hand which he had stretched forth fell to his side.

“Why! Hello, Jerry Hinkley!” he cried.

[Illustration: “‘Why! Hello, Jerry Hinkley!’”]

“Hello,” responded Jerry with an embarrassed smile. He was quite a
different-looking Jerry already. His hair had been cut, the faded
overalls and blue gingham shirt had given place to a suit of plain,
neat clothes, half-hidden by a long apron, and there was a new
expression of self-reliance in the gray eyes. He shook hands with
Nelson a bit awkwardly, but looked very glad to see him again.

“What are you doing here, Jerry?” asked Nelson.

“I’m cook’s boy,” was the answer. “I joined the show last Wednesday,
the day after I seen you. Have some sugar?”

Nelson helped himself, accepted the proffered tin spoon, and stirred
his coffee.

“Do you like it?” he asked. “It must be rather a change from the farm.”

“Yes, I like it first-rate,” said Jerry.

“I don’t like to interrupt the meeting of old friends,” said the cook
good-naturedly, “but they’ll be in for breakfast in about ten minutes,
Jerry, and if you ain’t ready for ’em they’ll scalp you alive.”

“I better be goin’,” said Jerry. “Glad I seen you again.”

“All right,” answered Nelson. “When can I see you? Are you busy all
day?”

“No; ’long about ten o’clock I generally don’t have much to do.”

“Good! I’ll look you up then,” said Nelson. “The other fellows will
want to see you too; I’ll bring them along.”

“Will you?” asked Jerry eagerly from the door of the tent. “That’s
mighty kind of you. Good-by. I--I’ll look for you.”

“Know Jerry, do you?” asked the cook as he pulled a box of tin cups
toward him and began setting them on a trestle. Nelson told of their
former meeting, sipping the boiling hot coffee the while.

“Well, Jerry’s a pretty good boy,” said the cook. “Tends to his work
and ain’t got no highfalutin’ nonsense about bein’ too good for it.
Come around and see us again.”

“Thanks,” said Nelson. “I will. And I’m awfully much obliged for that
coffee; it went right to the spot.”

“Knew it would. Have some more? No? Well, so long.”

Nelson turned away and retraced his steps. The coffee had warmed him
up, and he wished the others could have some. He stopped one of the
canvasmen and asked the time.

“Twenty-five minutes after six,” said the man, consulting a big nickel
watch.

Nelson thanked him and went on. But it wouldn’t do to wake up the
others yet, for, of course, the telegraph office wouldn’t be open
before eight, and they wouldn’t want to wait around without any
breakfast. So instead of joining them he turned and looked about him.
The big tent was up, and so was the dressing tent alongside. The
ticket seller’s box was set up beside the main entrance, and men were
stretching a forty-foot length of painted canvas across some upright
poles. He walked toward them and watched. When finally in place the
canvas advertised the attractions of the side show. There was a highly
colored picture of “Princess Zoe, the Marvelous Snake Charmer.” The
princess was an extraordinarily beautiful young lady and was depicted
standing in a regular chaos of writhing snakes, while two others proved
their subjugation by twining themselves caressingly about her arms and
neck. Then there was a picture of “Boris, the Wild Man of the Tartary
Steppes.” Nelson didn’t find Boris especially attractive. According to
the picture he was a squat gentleman with a good deal of hair on his
face, a remarkably large mouth, a flat nose pierced by a brass ring,
and an expression of extraordinary ferocity. Add to that that he was
shown in the act of making his dinner on unappetizing-looking pieces of
raw meat, and you will understand Nelson’s lack of enthusiasm. Queen
Phyllis, the fortune teller, while not particularly beautiful, was much
more pleasing to look upon. The last picture was that of “Zul-Zul, the
Celebrated Albino Prima Donna,” singing before the crowned heads of
Europe. Having exhausted the fascinations of Zul-Zul, Nelson wandered
unchallenged into the main tent and found a squad of men erecting
the seats. Even that palled after awhile, and he went out again and
walked through the lane formed of the chariots and wagons. The cages
were still boarded up, but the legends outside threw some light on the
identity of the occupants. “Numidian Lion,” he read; “Asiatic Zebra,”
“Black Wolves,” “Royal Bengal Tiger.” Now and then a cage would rock
on its springs as its occupant moved about, and sometimes a snarl or a
grunt reached his ears. A strip of canvas festooned the big tent on the
roadside and bore the inscription in big black letters:

    +---------------------------+
    |     MURRAY AND WIRT’S     |
    |  MAMMOTH COMBINED SHOWS.  |
    |                           |
    | AMERICA’S GREATEST CIRCUS |
    |      AND HIPPODROME!      |
    +---------------------------+

At a little after seven, having seen all that was to be seen at
present, he returned to the camp. On his way he stopped for a look at
the elephant and camel, which were breakfasting on a bale of hay. In
broad daylight the elephant was distinctly disappointing. He wasn’t
much larger than the camel, as far as height and length went, but there
was a good deal more of him. He was secured by a short chain which led
from an iron ring around one hind foot to a stake driven in the ground.
He ate slowly and thoughtfully, with much unnecessary gesticulation
of his trunk. He was sadly deficient in the matter of tusks, for he
showed only one, and that one had been broken off about three inches
from his mouth and looked much in need of cleaning. Yes, Nelson was
disappointed in the elephant. Nor, for that matter, was the camel much
more satisfying. He was a dirty, rusty camel with a malicious gleam in
his little eyes and a forbidding way of snarling his upper lip back
over his discolored teeth.

“Oh, don’t be so grouchy,” muttered Nelson. “I’m not going to swipe any
of your old hay.”

When he got back to the knoll he found only Barry fully awake, although
Dan showed symptoms of wakefulness, muttering away at a great rate and
throwing his arms about. While Nelson watched, the expected happened.
One of Dan’s arms descended forcibly on Tom’s nose, and Tom awoke with
an indignant snort.

“Hello, Nel,” he muttered. “What time is it?”

“About a quarter after seven, I guess. I can’t tell you exactly, for I
seem to have mislaid my watch.”

Tom gave his attention to Dan.

“Here, wake up, you lazy brute!” he cried. “Want to sleep all day?”

He accompanied this remark with a violent tweak of Dan’s nose, and the
effect was instantaneous. Dan sat up with a start and sent Barry flying
on to Bob.

“Wh-what’s the matter?” he asked, startled.

“Time to get up,” said Tom virtuously.

“That’s right,” agreed Nelson. “Everyone’s eating breakfast.”

“Huh!” said Tom. “Wish I was.”

“Who’s eating breakfast?” asked Bob, rolling over with the struggling
terrier in his arms.

“Well, the elephant and the camel, for two,” answered Nelson.

“Elephant and cam--!” ejaculated Dan. “Say, that’s what comes of
sleeping in the moonlight. I’ve heard of it before. I wonder if you’re
daffy, too, Bob. Are you? Try and say something sensible and let’s see.”

“The moonlight can’t have any effect on you,” said Bob significantly.
Dan sighed.

“You too! I feared it! Say, Nelson, how are the pelicans and the white
mice getting on? Had their hot chocolate yet?”

“I didn’t see them,” answered Nelson. “But the Numidian lion and the
royal Bengal tiger aren’t up yet.”

“You don’t say? Dear, dear, most careless of them! Say, Tommy, how
about you? Are you--er--?” Dan tapped his forehead.

“I will be if I don’t get something to eat pretty soon,” replied Tom
dolefully. “How soon does that telegraph office open?”

“Eight, I guess,” said Nelson. “Wonder where we can wash up a bit?”

“How about the farmhouse over there?” suggested Bob.

“All right, I guess. Let’s break camp and go over. By the way, I saw
Jerry a little while ago.”

“Jerry who?” asked Tom.

“Jerry Hinkley.”

Dan, who had started to get up, sank back again and viewed Nelson with
real concern.

“What are you talking about?” he demanded.

“Why, Jerry Hinkley,” answered Nelson with a laugh. “Haven’t forgotten
Jerry, have you?”

Dan shook his head sorrowfully.

“No, but you’d better forget him. Joking aside, Nel, what’s the matter
with you?”

“Oh, nothing. Or--well, the fact is, I thought I saw things; elephants
and camels and--and circuses, you know. I suppose I must have dreamed
it.”

“Well, rather!” said Dan relievedly.

“What was Jerry doing?” asked Bob. “Feeding the elephant peanuts or
riding the camel?”

“He was setting the table,” replied Nelson gravely.

“Say, you must have had a corking nightmare!” exclaimed Tom. “I did a
little dreaming myself; dreamed I was freezing to death, for one thing;
but I didn’t see any menageries.”

“Well, come on, fellows,” said Bob. “Pack up and let’s get a move on.
We’ll get them to loan us some water over at the house and then mosey
toward town. Gee, I’m beastly hungry! Feel as though I hadn’t had a
thing to eat for six weeks.”

“I had a cup of coffee about an hour ago,” said Nelson musingly.

“Say, chuck it, will you?” begged Dan earnestly. “You make me feel
creepy, Nel.”

“Was it hot?” asked Tom in far-away tones as he tied up his pack.

“Boiling,” answered Nelson. “It was great. I wished you fellows had
been there.”

“Thanks. Where was it?” asked Bob. “In the Sahara desert?”

“No; down at the mess tent.”

“What mess tent? Jerry’s?”

“Well, he was there. That’s where I met him. It was the circus mess
tent. The cook gave it to me. It was peachy!”

“Su-say!” cried Tom. “Maybe he isn’t lying, fellows! You know there
was to be a circus here to-day!”

“Yes, that’s what made Nel dream of ’em,” said Bob.

But Tom was studying Nelson’s face attentively, and something about his
smile made Tom suspect that he was on the right track.

“I’ll bu-bu-bet you it’s su-su-su-so!” cried Tom. “Where is it, Nel?”

“Come on,” said Nelson.

They followed him up to the brow of the hill. Before them lay the tents
and the wagons, and, nearer at hand, the elephant and the camel were
still quietly eating breakfast. They stared in amazement.

“Well, I’ll be bu-bu-bu-bu----!”

“Of course you will, Tommy,” said Nelson soothingly. “Only don’t
explode.”

“--bu-bu-bu-blowed!” ended Tom triumphantly. “Wouldn’t that
cu-cu-cu-craze you?”

Then Nelson had to tell them all about it.




CHAPTER XI

IN WHICH JERRY TELLS HIS STORY AND DAN PROVIDES DINNER


They dragged Dan away from the elephant and set out for the town and
the telegraph office.

“I hope the money is there,” said Tom. “Of course I want to eat, but
to stay here where there’s a circus and not be able to get in would be
worse than starving.”

“And such a bee-oo-tiful elephant,” sighed Dan. “I could look for hours
at that elephant and watch him curl his trunk up. Why weren’t we made
with trunks, do you suppose?”

“I suppose little boys like Tommy would only have suit cases?” inquired
Bob.

“Robert, that is a bum joke,” answered Dan severely. “Only the
consideration that you are weak and faint from want of food restrains
me from punishing you severely. Also Nel.”

“What have I done?”

“It’s what you didn’t do. You didn’t wake me up when the circus walked
into our bedroom. Don’t you think I like to see camels and lions and
things as well as you do? And hot coffee too! You were pretty mean to
have all that fun by yourself.”

“That’s what!” concurred Tom.

“Well, there’s the telegraph office,” said Bob. “Say, fellows,
supposing--supposing it hasn’t come!”

“Maybe it hasn’t--yet,” said Dan anxiously. “It’s only a little after
eight, and if dad didn’t send it last night----”

“We ought to have said ‘Send immediately,’” interrupted Bob regretfully.

“That’s so,” agreed Tom; “immediately, if not sooner. But pshaw, why, I
can just smell that money!”

“Wish I could smell the breakfast,” laughed Nelson. “Here we are.”

“Good morning,” said Dan. “Anything here for me?”

The operator shook his head.

“Nothing yet,” he answered.

They looked disappointed, and he added:

“Brooklyn’s sort of slow this morning, though; maybe your message is
coming.”

“It’s more the money I want than the message,” said Dan.

“Oh, well, the money wouldn’t be likely to get here for an hour or so
yet. When was it sent?”

“I don’t know. Last night, I hope.”

“If it was sent last night it ought to be here now,” said the operator.

“What’ll we do?” asked Dan.

“I’m going back to the circus,” said Tom. “If I’ve got to starve I’d
rather do it there where I can keep my mind off my troubles.”

“So am I,” said Nelson.

“I guess we might as well all go,” said Dan. “I’ll come back in an
hour,” he added to the operator. “It ought surely to be here by that
time, don’t you think?”

“I should think so,” answered the operator. “Sorry I haven’t got it for
you now.”

“Thanks. It isn’t your fault, though. Come on, fellow-poverns.”

“What’s a povern?” asked Tom.

“It’s a chap who hasn’t any money,” answered Dan glumly, “like you and
me, Tommy, and Bob and Nelson--and Barry.”

“Oh,” said Tom disappointedly; “I thought maybe it was something to
eat. I guess I was thinking of muffins.”

“Don’t do it; that way lies madness.”

When they turned into the circus grounds again they put Barry back
on his leash, for he showed a most unchristian attitude toward the
elephant and camel. For an hour they wandered about or sat on some
packing boxes at the back of the dressing tent and tried to forget
that they were hungry. Then Dan and Barry left them and set off for
the telegraph office once more. By that time the scene had become
animated again. The horses were being hitched to the wagons and
chariots, performers in costume were issuing from the dressing tent,
and the elephant and camel were being decked in spangled red blankets.
Tom made inquiries and learned that there was to be a parade through
Millford and on a mile farther to where the summer colony was situated.
Things were quite exciting for the next half hour and when all was in
readiness the boys went down to the road to watch the procession pass
out.

First there was an intensely dignified gentleman in hunting costume,
pink coat, high hat, and all, who rode ahead on a big white horse.
Then came the band, eight dejected-looking men in red tunics sitting
in a boat-shaped barge. After them followed the elephant conducted by
an Irishman in Arab dress who carried a short spear. The elephant’s
name, if the faded red blanket was to be believed, was Hercules.
The blanket said so in large letters. But the Irish Arab called
him “Charlie.” A lady with golden hair, attired in a flowing white
costume of cheesecloth made up according to the fashions prevailing
in Greece many centuries ago, stood in a golden chariot and drove
three well-behaved black horses abreast. A second chariot, drawn
by three bay horses, was presided over by a red-faced gentleman in
Roman costume. A line of animal cages followed. Then came a small
pony cart hauled by a black-and-white pony and driven by a clown,
a very sad-looking individual indeed. More cages, many empty; a
calliope with the musician smoking a big black cigar; a float upon
which five white-cheesecloth-attired ladies sat in various attitudes
of discomfort; two lady jockeys driving white horses in tandem;
more clowns, one riding a donkey and the others occupying a small
carriage; the camel ridden by a man in a pair of baggy blue trousers
and a green jacket; three trick ponies led by small boys; an ancient
barouche occupied by four gentlemen in full dress and bearing placards
advertising the show. That was the last of it. It trailed slowly away
in the direction of the village, and the boys slipped off the fence.

“Let’s go and find Jerry,” suggested Nelson. “He said he wasn’t busy at
ten, and I guess it must be pretty near that time now. Gee, but I miss
my watch!”

“And I miss my money,” said Tom.

“Wait a minute,” said Bob. “Here comes Dan. Did you get it, Dan?”

Dan shook his head sadly.

“Thunder!” muttered Tom.

“Do you suppose your father’s away?” asked Bob.

“I don’t believe so. He doesn’t very often go away. Anyhow, mother
would be pretty sure to open the message.”

“I think one of us had better telegraph,” said Nelson.

“Wait until noon,” said Bob.

“We’ll be starved by that time,” objected Tom.

“Look here, fellows,” said Dan. “If that money doesn’t come by twelve
o’clock, I’ll get some dinner for you.”

“How?”

“I don’t know how yet. But I’ll do it, so don’t you worry. I’m mighty
sorry, and I don’t see what the trouble can be.”

“Oh, don’t bother,” said Bob, noting Dan’s downcast looks. “We’ll do
well enough. Who wants to eat, anyway?”

“Not I,” said Nelson. “Food has no attraction for me; I’m above it.”

“It’s bad for the digestion,” added Tom. “Let’s find Jerry. Maybe he’ll
present us with a crust of bread.”

“If you ask him for food,” threatened Bob, “I’ll lick you, Tommy, till
you can’t stand up--or sit down either, for that matter.”

“Who’s going to ask him?” muttered Tom. “I was only in fun.”

They found Jerry sitting on one of the trestles outside the mess tent
reading a book. When they hailed him he laid the book aside rather
hurriedly, but later Nelson caught a glimpse of the cover. It was a
battered arithmetic. Jerry shook hands all around and was formally
introduced to Barry, and they climbed to the trestle beside him and
asked dozens of questions. Above all they wanted to know how Jerry came
to be with the circus.

“It sort of happened,” he said. “The day after you all was at the farm,
dad sent me over to Newbury with a load of hay for the circus. I got
there about eight o’clock and after I’d thrown the load off I hitched
the horses and looked around a bit. And I happened to get along to the
mess tent just when Mr. Foley--that’s the head cook and the man that
gave you the coffee--was tellin’ Mr. Wirt--he’s one of the proprietors,
you know--that he wouldn’t work another day without a boy to help him.
You see, the boy they had before I came, had run away two days before,
when they was showing at Flushing. So after the boss went away I up and
asked Mr. Foley did he want a boy. He said he did, and I said I’d like
the job. He looked me over and said for me to go and see Mr. Wirt. So I
seen Mr. Wirt, and he hired me. Then I drove the hayrick home and came
back in the afternoon.”

“That was slick,” said Tom. “Do you like it?”

“Yes, I like it. It’s kind of hard, but Mr. Foley and Mr. Jones are
mighty good to me. I get three dollars and a half a week and plenty to
eat.”

“Did your father want you to go?” asked Nelson.

Jerry shook his head.

“No; but after I’d explained to him he didn’t mind--much. You see,
it’s kind of lonesome for dad without me there. But I told him I had to
earn some money because I was going to school next year, and he said it
was all right. Course I ain’t goin’ to stay here all winter. The show
goes South next month, and I’m goin’ to quit then. I got a place on a
farm promised me in October, over near Barrington.”

“That’s fine,” said Nelson. “You still intend to go to Hillton?”

“Yes. Do you--do you think I could?”

“Of course you can,” answered Nelson heartily. “Only--you’d better
study whenever you get a chance.”

“I’m goin’ to.”

“It would be nice,” said Dan, “if you could go to one of the schools
around here this winter.”

“Yes; I thought of that,” answered Jerry, “but I couldn’t do it, I
guess; leastways, not if I was to make any money. And I got to have
money,” he added doggedly.

Dan looked inquiringly at Nelson and Bob, but each shook his head,
counseling silence as to their conspiracy.

“Does the circus make much money?” asked Tom.

“I guess so,” Jerry replied. “Sometimes we don’t have very big crowds,
and then again sometimes we have to pack ’em into the tent like oats
in a grain bin. A good deal depends on the weather, they say. They’re
sort of lookin’ for a big crowd this afternoon an’ a slim one to-night.
This ain’t a very good show place, Mr. Foley says, but it’s better to
make a little here than to miss a performance, like we’d have to do if
we went right on to Patchogue.”

Jerry put his hand in his pocket and brought out four soiled oblongs of
red pasteboard.

“I thought maybe you fellers would like to go,” he said, handing the
admission tickets to Dan. “Those ain’t for reserved seats, but the
reserves ain’t much better’n the others, far’s I can see.”

“That’s awfully kind of you,” said Dan, and the others echoed his
sentiment.

“Can you get all the tickets you want?” asked Nelson.

“N-no,” answered Jerry; “they don’t give many away.”

“Well, they must like you, Jerry, to give you all these,” said Tom.

Jerry studied his hands a moment.

“I--they didn’t exactly give me them,” he owned finally.

“Do you mean that you bought them?” asked Tom.

“Yes; but ’tain’t anything,” Jerry responded with elaborate
carelessness.

“But--but--!” stammered Tom.

Nelson reached across with his foot and kicked Tom’s shin.

“It’s mighty good of you, Jerry,” he said gratefully. “Are you going to
be there?”

“Somewheres about, I guess.”

“Well, couldn’t you go with us and--and sort of explain things?”

Jerry’s face lighted eagerly.

“Guess I could if you want me to,” he answered.

“All right. We’ll look for you here, then. What time does it begin?”

“Half-past two. I’ll be here and I’ll look for you. You won’t see as
good a show as usual, though,” he continued apologetically. “You see,
we ain’t got Donello any more. He left us day before yesterday.”

“Who’s he?” asked Bob.

“He’s the fellow does the high dive,” answered Jerry. “Ain’t you seen
the show bills? He climbs up a ladder on to a little platform about
thirty feet in the air an’ dives into a tank an’ turns a somersault
comin’ down. The bills say that there ain’t but three feet of water in
the tank, but that ain’t so, ’cause the tank’s set down in the ground
about two feet. It’s a fine trick, that is, an’ the first time I seen
it I was most scared to death. But he an’ Mr. Murray had a quarrel, an’
he lit out. Mr. Murray’s been telegraphin’ around ever since tryin’ to
get some one to take his place, but I guess he ain’t found anyone.”

“How far did you say he dives?” asked Dan.

“’Bout thirty feet, but it looks a lot more. An’ when he gets up there
he says ‘Ready!’ in a little squeaky voice that sounds like he was
about a mile away. An’ then the drums beat an’ he comes down headfirst
a ways. Then he flips himself over, an’ the ringmaster he shouts ‘In
mid-air!’ an’ then Donello he comes plump into the tank headfirst; an’
everyone sets up a shoutin’ an’ a clappin’. It’s certainly”--Jerry
searched for a word--“in-_spi_-rating.”

“It must be,” said Dan gravely. “I wonder what time it is.”

Jerry looked up at the sun.

“’Bout eleven, I guess,” he answered. “I got to get to work. The
parade’ll be back in about half an hour, an’ we have dinner at
half-past twelve.”

“Well, we’ll meet you here at about a quarter past two,” said Nelson as
they slid off the trestle.

“What’ll we do now?” asked Tom.

“Guess I’ll go back to the telegraph office,” said Dan.

“We’ll all go,” said Nelson. “Then if the money’s there we can find
some place to have some dinner. We don’t want to miss the show. Isn’t
Jerry a corker?”

“He’s all right, Jerry is,” agreed Bob. “What was that word of his?
Inspi----?”

“In-_spi_-rating,” answered Tom, laughing. “I wish Donello, or whatever
his name is, was going to do his stunt. It sounds pretty fine.”

“Shucks!” said Nelson, “that isn’t very much. Why, look here, Dan,
you’ve done twenty-five feet often up at camp. And as for turning
somersaults----!”

“That’s all right,” responded Tom warmly, “but I’ll bet you couldn’t do
it, nor Dan either. It’s one thing to dive into a lake where there’s
twelve feet of water and another to dive into a little old tank.”

“Five feet’s as good as twelve,” answered Dan calmly.

“Not for me it isn’t,” said Tom.

“I know, Tommy; it takes more water to float you.”

“Huh!” grunted Tom. “I can beat you floating!”

“I don’t believe you could sink if you tried,” said Dan.

“Then what did you just su-su-say it took more water----”

“Shut up, you fellows,” interrupted Bob. “Here’s the office. Let’s
learn the worst.”

It was soon learned. The operator shook his head before Dan could ask a
question. Tom groaned loudly.

“I’ll stay here awhile,” said Dan soberly. “You fellows go on back if
you want to. I’ll be there at a little after twelve.”

“Well, all right,” said Nelson. “Only if you don’t hear by that time
I’d better telegraph to my folks. Supposing I write out a message now?
Then if you don’t get any word you can send it.”

So Nelson wrote a demand for fifty dollars “_immediately_,”
underscoring the “immediately,” although, as Bob pointed out, the
operator couldn’t send italics.

“I don’t care,” replied Nelson. “It gives me satisfaction.”

They left Dan and, after sauntering around the streets of the little
village for a while, returned to the circus field in the wake of the
parade. On the way they paused to admire a lithograph of “Donello,
Prince of High Divers, in his Perilous Plunge of Fifty Feet into
Thirty-six Inches of Water!”

“But, look here,” objected Tom, “how many of him are there?”

Sure enough, according to the lithograph there were three distinct
Donellos. One was poised on the little platform at the summit of the
ladder, while two others were turning somersaults on the way down to
the tiny tank.

“Oh, that’s just poetic license,” explained Nelson. “It shows him at
various points in the trip. It’s the same chap, see? Blue-black hair,
pink tights, and a green velvet thingumbob around the middle of him.”

“All the same,” answered Tom, “it’s a lie, that picture.”

“As far as I can see,” responded Bob sadly, “circus posters are most
all lies. I guess if they just showed what there really was to see no
one would go.”

“Sure,” said Nelson. “Besides, they’re mighty interesting lies. I
suppose a circus man’s got as much right to tell lies in his pictures
as authors have to write them in books.”

“It isn’t the same,” objected Tom. “Authors don’t tell lies to get your
money out of you, and circuses do.”

“No; authors get your money first,” laughed Bob.

“Besides,” Tom continued, “that poster says fifty feet, and Jerry says
it’s only thirty.”

“Poetic license again, Tommy,” said Nelson soothingly.

“It isn’t right, though,” was the stubborn response.

“Well, don’t you care, old chap; it isn’t your fault.”

“Hunger is driving Tommy into a frightful condition of pessimism,” said
Bob.

“Wish I had a fried egg,” said Tom gloomily.

“Yes, all kind of golden on top and brownish around the edges,”
supplemented Bob with a grin.

“Oh, cut it out,” sighed Nelson. “You’re making me have spasms inside.
I suppose we might go and stand around the cook until he offered us
something to eat to get rid of us, but it would be pretty low down.”

“Couldn’t be any lower down than I feel right now,” said Tom.

“Oh, I guess Dan’ll get the money this time,” said Bob hopefully.

They found a comfortable place in the sun and stretched themselves out
to wait. Nelson said he was going to try to go to sleep and forget
it. But he didn’t succeed. It was long past noon when Barry pounced on
them and heralded Dan’s approach. They sat up quickly and looked the
question none dared to ask. Dan shook his head smilingly. Tom rolled
over on the grass and muttered. Even Bob lost his temper for an instant.

“You needn’t look so thundering pleased about it,” he growled.

Dan laughed and tossed something at him. Bob snatched it up. It was a
two-dollar bill.

“What did you lie for?” he demanded.

“I didn’t,” answered Dan. “The money hasn’t come, nor any message
either. But there’s enough for dinner.”

“Wh-wh-wh-wh-where--” began Tom.

“You needn’t ask where it came from,” said Dan, “because I’m not going
to tell you. But I got it honestly, and all you’ve got to do now is to
find something to eat.”

“It sounds good to me,” said Nelson, jumping up. Bob and Tom joined
him, eying Dan curiously.

“Aren’t you coming?” asked Bob. Dan shook his head.

“I’ve had mine,” he answered lightly.

“I’ll bet you haven’t! Don’t be an ass, now; there’s more than enough
for the four of us.”

“Honor bright, I have, Bob.”

“Where?”

“I won’t tell you. Go on and get your dinners, you chaps, and I’ll tell
you all about it later. And--er--do you mind taking Barry with you? I
don’t believe he had enough.”

“Will you be here when we come back?” asked Nelson suspiciously.

“Yes, somewheres around,” was the careless answer.

“There’s something mighty funny about it,” grumbled Tom as they took
themselves off, Barry following unwillingly at the end of the leash.

“You bet there is,” answered Nelson. “Dan’s been up to mischief, that’s
what!”

“Well, he says it’s all right,” said Bob cheerfully, “and Dan doesn’t
lie. I vote we get some dinner and----”

“Hold on a bit!” cried Nelson. “Let me see that bill.”

He took it and looked it over carefully. Then he gave a sigh of relief.

“It seems to be all right,” he said. “I didn’t know but what it might
be a fake or something. You never can tell what Dan will do.”

“That’s so,” the others agreed.

And a few hours later they were more certain of it than ever.




CHAPTER XII

WITNESSES THE FIRST APPEARANCE OF “DANELLO”


They found their dinners at the first house they applied at, and good,
generous dinners they were. At a quarter of two they were returning
to the circus ground, and not alone. The vicinity for two weeks past
had been well sprinkled with glowing posters advertising “America’s
Greatest Circus and Hippodrome,” and now the result was in evidence.
The road to the field was lined with pedestrians and filled with
vehicles. The mud-specked family carryall of the farmer or the spring
wagon with boards forming extra seats for the accommodation of a large
family rubbed hubs with the natty phaeton or rubber-tired station ’bus
from the summer settlement. That thoroughly American vehicle, the
buggy, showed the national spirit of independence by rattling along in
the way of impatient and arrogant English carts and supercilious French
touring cars. Tom’s eyes hung out of his head.

“I didn’t know there were so many people on the whole island!” he
exclaimed.

“They’ll have a full house this afternoon, all right,” said Nelson.

When they reached the field they had difficulty in working their way
over to the mess tent, so great was the throng. The side show was being
liberally patronized. In the shade of the pictured canvas a man, in a
high silk hat and wearing a flannel shirt with a large yellow diamond
in it, stood upon a box and pointed out the attractions with a long
stick.

“This way, ladies and gentlemen!” he cried. “Don’t forget the Side
Show, the Palace of Mysteries, the Greatest Aggregation of Natural
Curiosities ever placed before the American Public. Step up, ladies and
gentlemen! It is only ten cents, a dime, the tenth part of a dollar!
’Twill neither make nor break! The Performance in the Main Tent does
not begin for half an hour. You have plenty of time to visit the Hall
of Wonders! See the Snake Charmer in her wonderful demonstration
of Psychic Force! A beautiful young girl who handles the deadly
rattlesnake, the formidable boa constrictor, and the treacherous Indian
Cobra as a child fondles a kitten! Only a dime, ten cents! See Boris,
the Wild Man of the Tartary Steppes! Lives on raw flesh, sleeps but one
hour in the twenty-four, and speaks no word of any known language! A
puzzle to the Scientists of all Countries! Listen to the Albino Patti,
whose voice has the greatest range of any singer in the world and has
delighted the ears of Royalty all over the Civilized Globe! Step up!
Step up! Step up! Have your fortunes told by Queen Phyllis! Tells the
past and the future! Reads your mind like an open book! Advises you in
affairs of business for the ridiculously small price of fifteen cents.
The greatest Fortune Teller of the Age! This way to the Side Show! Step
up! Step up! Step up! Step up!”

Tom listened with open mouth.

“Let’s go in,” he whispered. “We’ve got half a dollar yet.”

“Oh, come on,” laughed Nelson, dragging him forcibly away from the
enticing “barker” and the lurid canvas. “It’s nearly quarter past, and
we’ve got to find Jerry.”

They pushed their way through the jostling throng, seeking the mess
tent. Since morning dealers in lemonade, sandwiches, photographs,
souvenir post cards, and many other things had set up their tables. A
five-cent photograph tent was doing a rushing business, and a man with
a cane-toss outfit was fast becoming rich. Bob wanted to linger at the
post-card booth, but Nelson pulled him away only to discover the next
instant that they had lost Tom. He was discovered finally, watching
the efforts of a country youth to capture a pocket-knife by throwing a
wooden ring over the head of a cane.

“Say, Bob, lend me ten cents, will you?” he begged. “I’ll just bet I
can do that!”

“No, sir,” answered Bob firmly; “you come along here.”

Eventually they reached the mess tent and found Jerry awaiting them.

“Have you seen Dan?” they asked.

“Dan?” repeated Jerry, looking about as though that youth might be
hidden under the wagon or the trestles. “He ain’t here. Have you lost
him?”

“We left him an hour ago and he promised to be around here, but he
didn’t say where. I thought maybe he was with you,” answered Nelson.
Jerry shook his head again.

“No, he ain’t here.”

“Well, we’ll wait awhile. Maybe he’ll turn up if he hasn’t got lost.”

But he didn’t, and when the strains of the band reached them from the
big tent Tom refused to sit still a moment longer.

“Come on,” he said impatiently. “He’s got his ticket. Maybe he’s in
there now. We’re missing half the fun.”

So, led by Jerry, who seemed strangely excited for a boy who had been
part and parcel of the show for several days, they made their way to
the main tent, Nelson carrying Barry in his arms to keep him from
being walked on. They fought their way through the narrow entrance and
found seats near the end of the tent. There was one ring and a stage.
Suddenly Tom nudged Nelson.

“Look, I’ll bet they’ve got Donello back,” he said. “See there? That’s
the ladder and the tank like pictures show them.”

“Yes,” said Jerry; “I heard they’d found a fellow to take Donello’s
place, but it ain’t Donello himself. Here comes the grand march.”

The curtains at the far end of the tent were pulled aside, and a
procession of horses and chariots and animals entered and lumbered
around the tan bark to the martial strains of the overworked band.
Hercules wobbled along in a world-weary way, swaying his trunk as
though keeping time to the music. The camel followed. Tom said he
looked as though he was trying to do a cake walk. Then the three clowns
suddenly appeared, fell over the ropes in time-honored fashion, and
the performance began. It wasn’t a half-bad show, the boys agreed, Bob
pointing out the fact that it was an advantage to have only one ring
because you didn’t get cross-eyed trying to see two or three things at
the same time. The bareback riding was good, the trick roller-skaters
fair, and the clowns quite as funny as clowns ever are. Everybody ate
peanuts and threw the shells on everybody else, the air grew heavy with
dust, and the band played tirelessly. Tom sat with fascinated gaze and
saw everything that went on. Jerry told interesting inside history of
the performers, and was greatly pleased at the evident enjoyment of his
friends. It was the first time in his life that Jerry had ever treated
anybody and acted as host, and he was proud and elated. The afternoon
wore along and the performance with it. The ringmaster mounted the
stage and invited everybody to remain for the Minstrel Show and Popular
Concert to be held immediately after the conclusion of the performance.

“An amusing, instructive, and moral entertainment,” he declared,
“that no one should miss. Tickets are ten cents apiece. Gentlemanly
agents will now pass through the audience, and all wishing to do so
may purchase tickets to the Concert. Remember, they are but ten cents
apiece. Keep your seats, Ladies and Gentlemen! The best part of the
afternoon’s performance is still to be seen!”

Whereupon, as if by magic, vociferous men appeared everywhere shouting
“Tickets to the Minstrel Show and Concert! Only ten cents! Tickets
here! Who wants a ticket?”

“Here he comes!” whispered Jerry excitedly.

“Who?” asked Nelson.

“The fellow that’s going to dive,” answered Jerry. “That’s him coming
along there by the ropes. See?”

But they couldn’t see very well, for Donello’s substitute was at the
other end of the tent from them and various persons intervened. They
did, however, catch sight of a figure in pink fleshings with green
velvet trunks. Then the ringmaster introduced “Signor Donello, the
World-Renowned Aërial Diver,” and the drums rolled while the figure in
pink fleshings bowed gracefully and turned to the ladder. Up he went,
nimbly, hand over hand, until he stood on the tiny two-foot platform
attached to the top of the ladder high up under the creamy canvas roof.
Then he turned and looked down, and for the first time the boys saw his
face.

Nelson gasped, Bob half rose from his seat, Tom shouted:

“_Dan!_”

Nelson pulled him back to his seat.

“Shut up, you idiot!” he whispered hoarsely. “He’ll hear you and get
nervous.”

“Bu-bu-bu-but he’ll bu-bu-bu-break his nu-nu-neck!” cried Tom.

“Not Dan,” answered Nelson, but with more confidence than he felt.
“Just the same, it’s a fool stunt.”

“He ought to be licked,” growled Bob nervously.

“Do you think he’s tried it?” asked Nelson.

“Yes; he practiced before the tent opened,” said Jerry. “I knew about
it, but he made me promise not to tell.”

“I’ll bet he did,” said Nelson savagely. “He knew plaguy well we’d have
stopped him. That’s where he got the money he gave us, I guess.”

“Wh-wh-why don’t he jump?” asked Tom, squirming in his place. “Do you
su-su-suppose he’s scared?”

“That’s part of it,” explained Jerry. “Donello always did that. It gets
you sort of scared-like and anxious.”

It certainly did. Tom’s face looked like a piece of white paper. Bob
was scowling at his programme. Even Nelson, in spite of his confidence
in Dan’s ability to do most anything he made up his mind to do, looked
rather miserable. Jerry was the least anxious of the four,--but he had
witnessed the trials. The only entirely unperturbed member of the group
was Barry. Barry was sniffing the mingled odors of the tent with calm
curiosity.

High up above the ridiculously tiny tank of water, which to the
uninitiated seemed barely deep enough to bathe in, stood Dan. He held
a handkerchief in his hand the while he measured the distance. Then,
carefully, he stepped to the edge of the little ledge, dropped the
handkerchief, which went fluttering slowly down, accentuating the
distance, and let his arms fall straight to his sides.

There was scarcely a sound throughout the crowded tent. The audience
sat with upturned faces and fast-beating hearts. Tom’s fingers were
gripped fiercely into his legs as he watched with staring fascinated
eyes. Bob was breathing like a steam engine. Nelson, hands stuffed into
pockets, held his underlip between his teeth and made no sound. Barry
was standing in his lap and was now sniffing excitedly, his little nose
pointing toward the figure on the platform and twitching violently.

The ringmaster held up one gloved hand. The bandmaster raised his baton.

“_Ready!_”

The voice sounded a quarter of a mile away, and Nelson shivered. The
pink-clad figure gave a little hop from the edge of the platform and
shot downward like a flash of light. The drums broke into a roll. The
ringmaster cried “_Hi!_” and snapped his long whip. When a third of the
way down “Signor Donello’s” arms shot out and his body revolved.

“_In mid-air!_” cried the ringmaster exultantly.

Another drop and again the falling body turned head over heels, while
the drums rolled faster and the cymbals crashed. The new Donello had
beaten the old one at his own trick! The next instant there was a
splash and a cloud of flying spray as the body plunged headfirst into
the tank.

A gasp of relief arose from the audience, and then the applause
thundered forth, applause which quickly turned to laughter. For, as the
performer climbed over the edge of the tank, a white streak bounded
across the ring and leaped at his face. Barry had found his master.




CHAPTER XIII

WHEREIN THEY MEET THE WILD MAN OF THE TARTARY STEPPES


They were talking it over. It was after five o’clock and they were
sitting in the deserted dressing tent, to which Dan, as was his
privilege as a member of “America’s Greatest Circus and Hippodrome,”
had invited them. Barry was curled up in Dan’s lap. Jerry had taken
himself away to his duties.

“I knew I could do it,” Dan was explaining. “When Jerry told about it
I just made up my mind that if the money didn’t come I’d go to Murray
and ask for the place. And I did. He didn’t think I was quite right in
my mind at first, but I asked him to let me show what I could do, and
finally he agreed. Then”--Dan grinned reminiscently--“then I borrowed
two dollars and a half from him, half the pay for one performance----”

“Gosh! Did he only give you five dollars for doing that?” asked Tom.

“Well, I wanted more, but he said he’d only paid Donello five, so I
gave in. Then I had some lunch in the village, found you fellows, gave
you that two dollars, and went to the tent. They had got the ladder and
tank filled up, and I got into my tights. Jerry went with me to see
fair play. He didn’t want me to try it, Jerry didn’t, but I shut him up
and made him promise not to tell you fellows.”

“Lucky you did,” grunted Bob.

“That’s what I thought,” laughed Dan. “But, pshaw, it wasn’t any stunt!
Just a straight drop; and there wasn’t any possibility of missing the
tank.”

“But supposing you had?” asked Nelson quietly. Dan turned and looked at
him a second.

“Well, then I’d got considerably messed up, I guess,” he answered
soberly. “Well, I tried a dive from about twenty feet up first; the
platform is adjustable, you see; and it went all right. Then I went
clear up and tried it from the top. And that went all right too. It
seemed a long ways down at first, and I wondered whether the tank
would stay there until I got to it. But it did. Then I did it again
and tried a somersault. Murray was tickled to death. ‘You stay with
us,’ he said, ‘and you’ll be making big money in a year or two.’ Then I
thought to myself, what’s the use in doing only one flop when there’s
lots of time for two? I asked Murray, but he didn’t like it at first.
Said Donello was considered one of the best in the business and he was
always satisfied with one turn. But I made up my mind to try it, and I
did. It was dead easy. Murray wanted to hug me. Then he wanted me to
sign a contract for six months and went up on his price; offered me two
hundred dollars a month for two performances daily.”

“Gee!” gasped Tom.

“Well, that’s what I thought,” answered Dan with a laugh. “And I had to
think a long while before I got up courage to say no. But that wasn’t
the last of it. He’s after me yet. Maybe he’ll get me after all.”

“Not if I know it!” said Nelson indignantly. “I’d send for your dad the
first thing. Nice stunts for a chap who’s just out of bed from typhoid
fever!”

“Just out of bed, your granny! Well, anyway, I’ve agreed to do it again
to-night.”

“You have!”

“Yep.”

“Oh, cut it out,” said Bob. “We’ve got money enough. Besides, maybe
your dad’s telegram is at the office by this time.”

“I know, but I can’t go back on my promise, and I promised to perform
twice.”

“Well, don’t you go and try to improve on it,” begged Nelson. “Don’t
try to put in three somersaults instead of two.”

“By Jove!” exclaimed Dan, grinning, “that’s an idea! I hadn’t thought
of that!”

“Shut up!” begged Nelson. “If you try that trick you’ll be Done-ello
for sure.”

“Instead of _Dan_ello,” added Tom.

“Wasn’t it great about Barry?” asked Nelson. “He was on my lap and I
didn’t know what he was up to until he was kiting across lots with his
leash dangling after him. Did you hear the crowd laugh? Barry made the
hit of the performance.”

“Well, how about supper? Suppose you fellows come with me. I’m to eat
with the push here, and I guess Murray’ll let you come along if I agree
to pay for you.”

“That’s dandy!” said Tom. “We’ll eat with Zul-Zul and the Wild Man!”

“You’d better look out, Tommy,” Bob advised. “Maybe he’ll eat you,
you’re so fat and rosy.”

So Dan disappeared for a moment, and presently returned with the news
that Murray had given him permission to take the others to supper as
his guests.

“He’s mighty nice to you, isn’t he?” asked Nelson sarcastically.

That supper was one of the ever-remembered features of the trip. Jerry
found places for them at one end of the long table, and they looked
about them with frank curiosity. Overhead naphtha torches flared,
throwing deep shadows on the pine boards that formed the table. The
sides of the tent were up here and there, and from without came the
sound of the crickets, the voices of Mr. Foley and his companion at the
stoves, and the scrape and clash of pans and utensils. Inside, the air
became hot and heavy under the shallow curve of canvas, the tin plates
and cups glimmered, the steam drifted up from the hot viands, and the
noise was at first deafening.

This was the first table, Jerry informed them, and accommodated the
performers and the “staff,” the “staff” being the management. The
canvasmen, drivers, animal men, and the other hands ate later at a
second table. Across from the Four sat the ringmaster, between a
pleasant-faced and rather elderly woman and a thin youth with pale
cheeks whom Nelson recognized as the leader of the “family” of trick
skaters. He wondered who the woman was, and would have been wondering
yet, doubtless, had not his neighbor, a good-natured little Irishman,
come to his assistance.

“You’re frinds of the laddie that did the jomp?” he asked.

“Yes,” answered Nelson. “We four are together. We’re taking a walking
trip along the island.”

“Is thot so? Well, I didn’t see the jomp myself, but I heard the boys
talkin’ about it. ’Twas a pretty lape, they said.”

“Yes; but I was awfully scared. I was afraid he’d miss the tank.”

“I suppose so. Is he goin’ to shtay wid the show?”

“Oh, no; he only joined for to-day.” Nelson told briefly of the robbery
and their subsequent adventures, and the little Irishman chuckled
enjoyably.

“Sure, ’tis the plucky lad he is. But he’s right, the circus be’s no
place for a gintleman.”

“Do you belong?” asked Nelson innocently. Then he blushed and stammered
until the Irishman laughed his embarrassment away.

“Sure, there’s no offinse, me boy. I’m no gintleman. Yes, I belongs to
the show. Now, what would you think I was, sir?”

Nelson studied him a moment and shook his head.

“Are you--are you a clown?”

“Faith, no,” chuckled the other, “’tis not as bad as thot. Was you in
the side show? No? Well, you’d have seen me there if you’d been. They
call me ‘Boris,’ bedad! ’Tis a disgraceful, onchristian name, but it’s
money in me pocket.”

“Boris? Why, I thought Boris was the--the----”

“The Wild Mon of the Tar-_tary_ Shteppes? Thot’s me, me lad. Raw mate’s
me shpecialty and I shpake no word of any known language.”

Nelson glanced at the Wild Man’s plate, well filled with steak and
potatoes, and laughed. The Wild Man joined him.

“’Tis a faker I am. Me name’s Thomas Cronan an’ I was born in the wilds
of County Clare, which is the grane garden spot of ould Ireland. Sure,
we’re all fakers in the side show. Mrs. Wheet over there is ‘Princess
Zoe’ and does thricks with three ould shnakes thot’s had the shtingers
yanked out of them. She’s a lady, too, me boy, if iver there was one.”

Nelson, to his surprise, discovered that “Princess Zoe” was the
nice-looking elderly lady at the ringmaster’s right.

“An’ further along there,” continued his informant, “is ‘Zul-Zul,’
which her name is Maude Harris. She used to be an equistreen--rode the
horses, you know--till she had a fall and hurted her back. Thin she
blached her hair and now they call her an al-bin-o, which is an ungodly
name to my mind.”

“She--she sings, doesn’t she?” asked Nelson, observing the young lady
in question.

“Same as onybody sings, me boy, no more an’ no less.”

“Oh,” said Nelson. “And do you--like being a Wild Man?”

“I do an’ I don’t,” responded the other judicially. “’Tis asy money,
but the life’s confinin’. I’m thinkin’ I had the best of it when I was
drivin’ the tent wagon. Thot’s what I used to do. Come an’ see me this
avenin’, an’ bring your frinds. Tell Billy Conly, the feller outside, I
said he was to let you in.”

“Thanks,” answered Nelson. “And I’ll bring some raw meat with me.”

“Sure,” answered the Wild Man, laughing as he arose from the table,
“it’s kind of you, me boy, but I could ate no more to-night. We’re
shmall aters on the Tar-_tary_ Shteppes.”

After supper Nelson and Dan walked to the telegraph office, and this
time found the money awaiting them. There was also a telegram from Mr.
Speede.

“Away when your message came,” it read. “Have sent fifty. Sorry for
delay. Try and write oftener and send address.”

“I guess they’re worrying about us having the money swiped,” said
Dan. “I’ll write to-morrow. There ought to be some letters for us at
Bahogue. Supposing we walk on there to-night after the show? It’s only
about four miles and it’ll be fairly light, I guess. Wait.” He turned
back to the operator. “What’s a good hotel at Bahogue?” he asked.

“There’s the Seaview and the Bahogue House. They’re both good, I guess.”

“Seaview sounds good to me,” said Dan. “Is there an office at Bahogue?”

“Yes.”

“Good. Give me a blank.”

“Reserve two rooms for me to-night,” wrote Dan. “Will arrive about
midnight. D. H. F. Speede.”

“Will you get that off for me, please?” he asked.

They paid for the message, thanked the operator, said good night, and
went back to the circus, Barry, off his leash for the moment, cutting
all sorts of wild capers. Later the Four paid a visit to the side
show. The performance in the main tent had begun, and they had the
place almost to themselves. The Wild Man of the Tartary Steppes was
seated in a chair on a platform. He was dressed in yellow tights with
a strip of leopard skin about his hips and a string of bones about his
neck. A formidable club rested against his knees. On his head was a wig
of loose and long black hair, and his face was painted with black and
red stripes. He was not attractive, but nevertheless the picture on the
canvas outside was a base libel. He tipped Nelson a portentous wink,
jabbered something at him, and made signs with his hands which Nelson
translated as demands for raw meat. There were a few people wandering
about the tent, and so Nelson and the others waited until they had gone
before approaching the wild man. Then,

“Well, boys,” said Mr. Cronan, “how are ye the avenin’?”

“Fine,” answered Nelson. “I’ve brought my friends in to see you.
They’ve never seen a Wild Man before.”

“Think of thot!” sighed Mr. Cronan. “Sure where was they edicated?”

“Are you going to eat any raw meat this evening?” asked Tom with a grin.

“Have you ony wid you?”

Tom had to acknowledge that he hadn’t.

“There it is, then,” sighed Mr. Cronan again. “How am I to ate it if I
haven’t got it? ’Tis onreasonable you are, me lad.”

There were several photographs of the Wild Man lying along the edge of
the platform, and Nelson picked one up and looked at it.

“Ain’t thot a beautiful thing?” asked Mr. Cronan. “Does it do me
justice, do you think? Put it in your pocket, me boy, an’ show it to
your frinds when you git home. Tell ’em ’tis the picter of a Wild Mon
what chased ye down on Long Island.”

“I’d like to have it,” laughed Nelson, “but I’d rather pay you for it.”

“You pays nothin’,” answered Mr. Cronan firmly. “Put it in your pocket,
like I say, wid me compliments. Howld on! Give it me a minute.” The
Wild Man found a stump of a pencil in a hidden pocket, inverted the
photograph on his knee, stuck his tongue in his cheek, and laboriously
wrote. “There, ’tis much more valuable now.”

Nelson accepted it and thanked him. On the back was written in letters
half an inch high: “Your frand, Thomas Cronan, the wild man.” They were
formally introduced to the Snake Charmer, the Albino Patti, and the
Fortune Teller; also to a sad-looking little man in a suit of misfit
clothes whose duty it was to lecture about the attractions. Presently
they said good-by to Mr. Cronan and went out to the ticket booth. Dan
tried to pay for three reserved seats for his companions, but the
ticket seller refused to accept any money.

“Go ahead in,” he said smilingly, pushing the tickets and the money
toward them. “This is on the show.”

So they thanked him, presented their tickets, and were shown to seats,
Dan, however, leaving them to go to the dressing tent and taking Barry
with him. There was not so great a crowd as in the afternoon, but for
all that the big tent was comfortably filled. They had grown to know
a number of the performers by sight now, and the evening performance
proved more interesting for that reason. Dan’s fame had spread, and
when, near the end of the performance, he appeared at the foot of the
ladder, quite a salvo of applause greeted him.

“Look at Barry!” exclaimed Tom.

Dan had brought the terrier in with him, and now, when he began to
mount the ladder, Barry started after him. The audience laughed and
clapped. Barry managed three rounds of the ladder by hooking his paws
over them and dragging his body up, but that was as high as he could
get. Three times he made the attempt and three times he tumbled off.
Then he gave it up, barked once, and stood watching his master. As
before, the tent became stilled, Dan’s voice came down eerily from
the platform, the drums rolled, the ringmaster cracked his whip and
shouted his shrill “_In mid-air!_” the dropping pink figure revolved
twice, and the water splashed from the tank. Then, as the applause
broke out, Dan’s wet head appeared, and Barry leaped frantically toward
it. Fighting the terrier off, Dan scrambled from the tank with the
assistance of two of the red-coated men, and, grabbing Barry in his
arms, disappeared toward the dressing tent.

Afterwards they sought and found Jerry. The mess tent was gone, the
wagon packed, and that department was all ready for the road.

“Where do you go next, Jerry?” Bob asked.

“Ridgefield,” answered Jerry. “It’s about forty miles. We travel all
night.”

“Don’t you ever go by railroad?” asked Nelson.

“Not when we can help it. It costs more, you see. Some of the
performers take the train, though.”

“Well, good-by, Jerry. Take care of yourself; and I’ll write to you
soon. Where is it you’re going to work?”

“Mr. Osgood’s farm,” answered Jerry. “It’s about two miles from
Barrington.”

“And you’ll be there in October?”

“Before, I guess,” answered Jerry. “There ain’t much money in this, an’
since I seen you fellows again----”

He hesitated. Then,

“I kind of got more anxious to make that money,” he finished. “I guess
I’ll leave the show about the twentieth.”

“Well, good luck, Jerry. We’ll see you again, I guess; anyway, I’ll
write to you, because I think I’ll have some news for you.”

“What--what sort of news?” asked Jerry anxiously.

“Well, good news; I can’t tell you any more now. Good-by.”

They all shook hands, and then Jerry, as though loath to part from
them, walked out to the road with them and called a final good-by from
there.

“Did you get your money from the circus folks?” asked Tom of Dan, as,
with packs once more on their backs, they strode off toward the village.

“You bet. But, say, fellows, I had an awful time getting away. Murray
made all sorts of offers, and finally I promised him that if I ever
changed my mind I’d let him know right away.”

“It was a crazy business,” observed Bob.

“But it found us our dinners,” said Tom philosophically.

“You can always be sure of Tommy’s point of view,” laughed Nelson.

It was a clear, calm night, and walking was a pleasure. They were
all well rested, and the four miles intervening between Millford and
Bahogue were soon covered. A few minutes before they reached the hotel
the ocean sprang into view, and they heard the beat of the waves on the
beach.

“Sounds good to me,” sighed Bob. “Who’s for a bath in the morning?”

Evidently all were, even Barry, who, excited by the chorus of assent,
barked loudly. They found the Seaview House without difficulty,
assaulted the office gong until a sleepy porter appeared, wrote their
names on the register--Dan signing as “Signor Danello”--and were shown
to their rooms.

“Gee!” sighed Dan a few minutes later as he pulled the covers down and
rolled under them. “A real bed again! This thing of sleeping nigh to
nature is all very fine, Nel, but--the downy couch for mine every time!
Good night!”




CHAPTER XIV

TOM SWIMS IN THE OCEAN AND DIPS INTO POETRY


They were sitting on the big broad veranda of the hotel reading their
letters. It was eleven o’clock of an ideal September day, and the
guests, of whom there were many left despite the fact that the season
was almost at its close, were strolling or lounging in the sunlight
and making the most of what was likely to be summer’s last appearance.
Beyond the road and the broad crescent of dazzling white beach lay
Great South Bay blue and tranquil, the points of the little waves
touched with gold. Three miles away, a line of gleaming yellow dunes,
Fire Island stretched athwart the horizon.

The boys had donned clean clothes and, in their Sunday attire, looked
quite respectable. After breakfast they had inquired the way to the
post office and had reached it just in time to get their mail before
it closed. Then, having purchased Sunday papers, they returned to the
hotel veranda and settled down to read. Presently Nelson glanced up
from the letter in his hand.

“Look here, fellows, this doesn’t sound very promising, does it?”

“What’s that?” asked Bob, looking up from his own epistle.

“Why, it’s a letter from dad. You know I wrote him about Jerry, and
here’s what he says. Let me see.... Oh!... ‘Now, about that _protégé_
you tell of. The matter of seventy-five or a hundred dollars doesn’t
scare me, Nelson, but do you think your plan is feasible? Three hundred
would probably carry the boy through one year at school, supposing
he was able to pass the examinations, but what’s going to happen the
next year? Of course he might get a scholarship to help him along, and
it’s possible he might make some money doing some sort of work in the
village, but he couldn’t count on these things. We might do the boy
more harm than good, it seems to me. Presumably he is fairly content
with his present lot, and it is a question in my mind whether it would
not be advisable to let him go his own gait. If it was certain that he
would not have to give up after a year or two and return to the farm
and the life he is leading now, it would be different. But I don’t
suppose the fathers of your friends would care to undertake to provide
for him for the next four years. Certainly a good deal depends on the
boy. You’ve seen him and I haven’t. Perhaps he’s got it in him to get
the better of difficulties and work out his own salvation after the
first year or two. That would make a difference. Supposing you think
this over and let me hear from you again. Or we might talk it over
after you return. And let me know what the other gentlemen say. Mind,
this isn’t a refusal, and I shall be glad to donate a hundred or two
if I can be sure that it is going to accomplish some good; but I don’t
think it wise to go into anything of this sort without looking over it
pretty thoroughly. There is a great deal of harm done by ill-advised
charity.’”

“That’s just about what my father says,” said Tom.

“You’d almost think they’d got together and talked it over,” said Dan
ruefully. “My dad gives me just about the same song and dance. How
about yours, Bob?”

“He says: ‘Would advise placing the sum, say four hundred dollars, in
the hands of some one, perhaps Mr. Speede, for disbursement on the
lad’s account. Don’t believe it would be wise to pay the money over to
him or his relatives. If you decide to go ahead with the proposition
think I can interest Warren Chase, who is one of the trustees at
Hillton. He might be able to afford assistance to the lad. Am taking it
for granted that the lad is worthy of the assistance you propose; am
willing to trust your judgment in this. One hundred is all I can afford
at present, though it is possible that I might be able to help put
Hinkley through a second year when the time came. Let me know when you
want the money and I will forward check.’”

“Now, I call that businesslike,” said Dan approvingly. “My dad seems
to think it’s all a bally joke; wants to know if Jerry had _his_ money
stolen too!”

“Well, let’s talk it over,” Nelson proposed. “Now, supposing we get
enough money to pay one year’s expenses at Hillton, can Jerry pass
the exams? He’s had no languages at all except one year’s Latin in a
village school.”

“He ought to go to school this winter,” said Bob, “and take Math and
Latin--hard.”

“Of course he ought! And he ought to have some coaching next summer.
How’s he going to do it?”

“We need more money,” said Tom.

“Look here,” said Dan. “Talk sense. What’s to keep Jerry from going to
school this winter? If we provide the money for the first year at that
bum school of yours, why can’t he spend this winter and next summer
studying?”

“That’s so,” said Nelson. “But how about the second year, and the third
and the fourth?”

“What’s the use of troubling about that now?” asked Dan cheerfully.
“Let’s get him started and I’ll bet you anything he’ll pretty nearly
look after himself. As for next summer, it wouldn’t cost much to find a
tutor for him. Why, we could see to that ourselves. I know two or three
fellows in New York who would be mighty glad to coach him and do it
cheap.”

“That’s the stuff!” cried Tom.

“What do you think, Bob?” Nelson asked.

“I think what Dan says is sense. Education never hurt any chap, and
even if Jerry didn’t get more than two years at Hillton--and I guess we
could see that he got that much--it would make a difference to him all
his life. But I think, as Dan does, that if we give Jerry a start he’ll
be able to find his own way after the first year. Could he get anything
to do at Hillton that would bring him in some money?”

“Yes,” answered Nelson, “he could. There are lots of fellows there now
who are almost putting themselves through. Look at Ted Rollins! Ted
came there three years ago with three dollars in his pocket and a hand
satchel. And he’s going to graduate next spring. I know for a fact that
his folks have never sent him a penny; they can’t; they’re poor as
church mice.”

“Well, as far as I can see,” answered Bob, “our dads are ready to
give the money as soon as we can convince them that we are in earnest
and that Jerry deserves it. And I vote that we go ahead. You ask your
father, Dan, if he’s willing to take the money and pay it out for Jerry
as it’s required. We’ll all write home this evening and tell just how
the matter stands and ask to have the money sent to Mr. Speede about
the fifteenth of this month. Have you got Jerry’s address, Nel?”

“Yes; and I think the best thing to do, after we’re certain that
everything’s all right, is to see him on the way back and tell him all
about it, just what we propose to do, and all. He said he’d probably be
there by the fifteenth.”

“That’s right,” said Dan.

“But, look here,” exclaimed Tom, “if we don’t need the money until next
fall, what’s the good of having it sent to your father now?”

“Because,” Bob answered, “four hundred dollars put in the savings bank
or invested at four per cent means sixteen dollars a year from now. And
that will be enough to pay his railway fare to Hillton and back again.”

“That’s so,” acknowledged Tom. “Bob, you’re a regular Rothschild.”

“He’s a regular Yankee!” said Dan.

“Besides,” continued Bob, unheeding of compliments, “if Dan’s father
has the money we’ll know where it is, and so will Jerry. There’s
nothing like being certain, you know. It beats promises.”

“Right again, O Solomon!” said Dan. “I’ll ask dad about it. I guess he
will be glad to look after the Jeremiah Hinkley Fund and see that it is
well and safely invested. That’s settled, then. We’ll each of us write
to-night and get the thing all finished up ship-shape, eh? Now who’s
going for a swim?”

There was no dissentient voice, even Barry proclaiming loudly and
enthusiastically in favor of the suggestion. And a quarter of an hour
later they met in front of the bath houses ready for the plunge. They
found the water surprisingly warm. Barry splashed and leaped, biting
at the tiny breakers and then running away from them as though for his
very life. For a long while there was scarcely a breaker fortunate
enough to reach the beach without first having a hole bitten in it!
After some twenty minutes of diving and swimming the Four returned to
the warm sand and stretched themselves out. By this time the beach had
become well peopled, and from the surf came the shrieks and laughter of
the women and children. Some of the larger boys had started a game of
scrub baseball and were having an exciting and hilarious time. The Four
sat up and looked on for a while. Then, after the ball had taken Dan in
various parts of his anatomy three times, he arose disgustedly.

“Those fellows think I’m a backstop,” he said. “Maybe I am, but I don’t
work for nothing. Come on, and let’s go in again.”

So back to the water they went and mingled with the throng of bathers.
A group of men and older boys were arranging a swimming race out to a
sloop anchored about a quarter of a mile offshore and back. One of the
number, a muscular-looking fellow of about twenty-two with a Mercury’s
foot on the breast of his jersey, was evidently the best performer, for
the others were calling on him for handicaps.

“You?” he asked of an inquiring youth. “Oh, I’ll give you halfway to
the yacht.”

“I don’t want that much,” objected the other.

“Oh, very well, don’t take it,” laughed the crack. “It isn’t
compulsory, you know.”

“Is this an open race?” asked Dan smilingly.

The crack turned.

“Surely,” he answered heartily. “Come on. Want a handicap?”

“Want to give me one?”

The other looked him over carefully and pursed his lips in a doubtful
smile.

“You look sort o’ good, my friend. What’s your record for the quarter?”

“I don’t know. I haven’t been timed for two or three years. Give me a
couple of hundred yards.”

“All right, but I don’t like your looks.”

“How about me?” asked Tom, joining them. He looked like a good-natured,
pink-and-white barrel, and the crack smiled as he looked him over.

“Well, how much do you want?” he asked.

“Three hundred yards,” was the prompt reply.

“I’ll give it to you!”

“All right, put my name down,” said Tom.

The youth with the Mercury’s foot gravely wrote in the water with his
finger, and the onlookers laughed. Then the contestants, of whom there
were about a dozen, set off to their places. There was a good deal of
good-natured argument as to the distances taken up by those receiving
handicaps, but at last all were in position. Some one shouted “_Go!_”
at the top of his lungs, and the race began. They were to swim to the
sloop, pass around it, and return to the beach. Dan, who had no hope
of winning, since he conceived the Mercury’s foot chap to be unusually
good at the work, took things leisurely enough. But Tom, quite unawed
by the crack, set off as though he meant to win the race. As a result
he was the first to reach the sloop, having passed three competitors on
the way out to it, and turned toward home still swimming strongly.

The sea was quite smooth, and what tide there was was setting toward
shore. Some eighty or a hundred yards back from the sloop he passed
the crack swimming almost under water with long deliberate strokes of
his powerful arms. He smiled across at Tom in a brief moment when his
head was out of water, and that smile, at once amused and confident,
gave Tom a foretaste of defeat. Still, he was, perhaps, two hundred
yards ahead of the other, and if he could only keep his present speed
up for the rest of the distance he thought he might win. Tom wasn’t
a sprinter, but in a half mile or even a quarter he was no mean
antagonist. In spite of his rotundity of build he was strong of muscle
and, moreover, had learned the science of making every ounce of effort
tell. Presently Dan passed, fighting hard with another contestant.
Then, back of them, came the tag end of the procession. But Tom was
paying strict attention to business now and had no time for watching
others. Only once, while still halfway between sloop and finish, did
he let up for a moment and strive to see his principal rival, and then
he saw enough to set him frantically at work again. For the crack had
rounded the sloop and was hot on Tom’s trail and scarcely a hundred
yards in the rear. Tom struck out again with long, even strokes,
swimming hand over hand and pushing the water back from him with every
bit of strength in his body.

Among the breakers and just beyond them the spectators were watching
eagerly. Some few swam out to speed the winner over the line. Two men
and a young lady in a rowboat, which had mysteriously appeared on the
scene, shouted encouragingly to Tom.

“Go it, kid!” cried one of the men. “You can beat him! You’re holding
him!”

“Kid, eh?” thought Tom disgustedly. “I’ll show them!”

And now, with a little more than a hundred yards to go, Tom eased his
stroke a bit, for his muscles were aching terribly and his breath
threatened every instant to fail him and leave him rolling helplessly
about out there like a plump porpoise. And behind him, perhaps forty
or fifty yards back, the crack was coming along hard and fast, still
swimming with practically the same stroke he had started with.

Well, it was no disgrace to be beaten by a chap six or seven years your
senior, even if you had been given three hundred yards out of nine
hundred, thought Tom, in an effort to console himself. But the argument
didn’t satisfy him, and he took a deep breath of the good salt air and
forgot for a moment that his arms and legs felt as though they belonged
to some one else. Then the breakers were forming about him in little
hillocks of green water, the encouraging cries of the watchers reached
him when his head came dripping above the surface, and--and, almost
upon him, sounded the quick and regular splash of the pursuer! Tom
closed his eyes tight and tried to forget everything save the man in
the blue bathing suit, who, just where the breakers paused before the
curve, stood to indicate the finish line. A long swell shot him forward
for an instant. Then the returning undertow made it hard fighting.

And now he was in a wide lane formed by the splashing audience and
there was but another dozen yards to go. For a moment he began to hope.
But for a moment only. The steady strokes of his opponent were loud
in his ears now, and as he looked for an instant a brown hand reached
forward almost beside him and disappeared, burying itself in the
green, froth-streaked water. It was all up! thought Tom. He hated to
be beaten, did Tom, and for an instant he felt rather bad. And in that
instant two things happened: the crack swimmer drew abreast of him and
Tom had an idea. He suddenly remembered that he had always been able
to swim faster under water for a short distance than on top, and like
a flash he acted on that knowledge. Down went his head and shoulders,
his heels kicked in air for a moment like a steamer’s propeller out of
water, and then he vanished from the gaze of the laughing, shouting
watchers.

One, two, three, four, five strokes he took down there with the pale
green, sunlit waters about him; then up he came, thrashing desperately.
His foot struck the knee of his opponent, for a moment he had a glimpse
of a drawn, set face seen across the surface of the little wavelets,
and then it was all over, and he was struggling to his feet and gasping
painfully for breath.

“Who won?” was the cry.

The man in the blue bathing suit shook his head ruefully.

“No one,” he answered. “It was the deadest kind of a dead heat. They
were side by side. We’ll have to divide first money, I guess,” he
added, with a laugh.

The youth with the Mercury’s foot on his jersey came up to Tom with
outstretched hand.

“We finished together,” he said smilingly. “But don’t you ever talk to
me again about a three-hundred-yards handicap! That was the hardest
race ever I was in. My boy, you can certainly swim, and if you’ll keep
at it and train off some of that flesh of yours, you’ll have us all
beaten by the time you get to college. What’s your name?”

Tom struggled for breath. His heart was beating like a sledge hammer
and his lungs were doing what he called afterwards “a double shuffle.”

“Tu-tu-tu-tu--” he began. But for the life of him he couldn’t get any
farther. The audience tried hard not to laugh, and the crack smiled
in spite of himself. He might never have received an answer to his
question if Nelson hadn’t come to the rescue.

“His name’s Ferris, Tom Ferris,” said Nelson. “He’s a pretty good
swimmer for a fatty, isn’t he?”

That insult summoned Tom’s lost breath.

“Hope you ch-ch-ch-choke!” he stammered.

“Well, you’re all right, my boy,” said the crack admiringly. “We’ll
have a talk after dinner, if you like.”

Nodding, he moved off to the beach and disappeared into his bath house.
Nelson took Tom by the arm and led him in the same direction. Bob and
Dan, the latter having just finished fifth in the race, joined them.

“You were a cheeky beggar, Tommy,” said Bob, “to try and beat that
fellow!”

“Why?” gasped Tom, stretching his arms in the hope that they would stop
paining.

“Why, because he’s Woodbury, of”--here Bob mentioned a well-known New
York athletic club--“and he holds the quarter-mile and half-mile
amateur records, my boy.”

“Well, I could beat him next time,” said Tom stoutly.

“Yes, with three hundred yards,” said Dan derisively.

“Huh! You had two hundred yourself,” said Tom scathingly, “and you came
near not finishing at all!”

“You kicked up such a sea I couldn’t get my bearings,” answered Dan
gravely. “Swam straight out to sea for half a mile or so before I
discovered my mistake.”

“If you could swim as well as you can lie--” began Tom.

“Tommy! Tommy!” warned Bob.

“Well, wha-wha-what’s he tu-tu-tu-talk that way for?” asked Tom
aggrievedly. “I can swim better than he can, anyway. I’d be ashamed if
I couldn’t!”

Dan accepted the gibe in smiling silence, and the Four retired to
their two bath houses with chattering teeth. For a while nothing was
to be heard but hoarse breathing and the tread of scurrying feet as
bath towels were fiercely applied. Then, warmth returning to the
chilled bodies, the Four began to whistle and sing at the top of their
lungs. Dan went through everything he knew and then began on his own
compositions:

    “Tom, Tom, the Piper’s son,
     Swam a half a mile, by gum!”

It was necessary to sing it very loudly and several times over in order
that the subject of the song should hear it. When satisfied by the
howls of derision which came from next door that Tom and Bob had heard,
he gave his attention to the latter:

    “Mr. Bob, of Portland, Maine,
     Wouldn’t he give you a pain?”

More howls, dismal and prolonged, from the opposition. Then Tom’s
voice, eager, triumphant:

    “Du-du-du-Dan, Dan, su-silly old Dan!
     Eats blue paint out of a can!”

This reference to an episode of the preceding summer when Dan, playing
sign painter, had got himself very thoroughly mixed up with a half
gallon of bright blue paint, brought laughter from all.

“Let’s have a rhyme on Nelson,” suggested Bob.

“All right; you do it,” said Dan.

“Oh, I’m no poet. And I haven’t got my rhyming dictionary with me.”

“Oh, never mind the rhymes,” said Nelson. “Don’t let those bother you;
Dan doesn’t.”

“My rhymes are always faultless,” answered the other.

“Oh, yes; like ‘son’ and ‘gum’!”

“Those rhyme!”

“Get out!”

“Of course they do! Don’t they, Bob?”

“They may to you.”

    “Not every one can be a poet,
     Any more than a sheep can be a go-at,”

quoted Nelson.

“I’ve gu-gu-gu-gu-got it!” stammered Tom.

“You have; bad,” was Dan’s cruel reply.

“Listen!” cried Tom, unheeding.

    “There was a young fellow named Nelson--”

“Bet you can’t find a rhyme for it,” jeered Nelson.

“Shut up and let me tell it!

    “There was a young fellow named Nelson,
     Who sometimes got foolish spells on--”

“O-oh!” groaned the rest.

    “‘--It’s quite plain to see,’
     Said his friends, ‘you would be
     A clown if you only had bells on!’”

“Tommy, you’re a regular Alfred Austin!” cried Dan. The rest cheered
and applauded noisily, and Tom was so pleased with his effort that
he repeated it at intervals for the next few days on the slightest
provocation.

After dinner they sat for a time on the broad front veranda with Mr.
Woodbury, who was quite taken with Tom, and afterwards took boat over
to Fire Island on an exploring expedition. They found lots to interest
them on that barren expanse of sand dune and beach, not the least of
which was the life-saving station which they visited.

It was a square two-story building standing just above high water on
the seaward side of the island. A neat white-washed fence inclosed it,
and it was fronted by a plot of grass of which the members of the crew
were very proud. There were beds of flowers, too, geraniums mostly,
bordered with beach stones. The lifeboat and apparatus were kept in a
one-story addition to the dwelling house. The boys asked permission
to look about and were cordially welcomed. They were shown over the
place from top to bottom, inside and out. They saw the big, square
dormitory with its white iron beds, each flanked by a chest or trunk
containing the member’s clothes, the pleasant living room, the kitchen,
and the well-stocked storeroom. Their guide, a big blond-haired Swede,
explained that in the winter time communication with the mainland was
sometimes cut off for a week or more at a time, and therefore it was
necessary to keep a good supply of food on hand.

In the living room were several charts, and Tom in examining one
of them made the discovery that there were twenty-nine life-saving
stations along the south shore of Long Island, an interesting fact
which he brought to the attention of the others. Then they all had
to count, and each one got a different result, Dan making it as high
as thirty-four. After that they visited the boathouse and saw the big
lifeboat, the mortar used for shooting the lifeline out to a wreck, the
breeches buoy--which Tom wanted very much to get into--and many other
interesting objects. At last, thanking their host, they crossed the
island to the landing and returned to the hotel just in time for supper.

After that meal was over--and it took some time to satisfy their
appetites, which had been sharpened by the salt breezes--they devoted
the evening to letter writing. Even Tom was able to think of something
to say without having to call for suggestions from his friends. Before
retiring they took up the matter of their route for the next two days.

“I think,” said Tom, “it would be mighty jolly to go over to Fire
Island and walk along to the eastern end of it. We could see the
life-saving stations and--and there might be a wreck!”

“Tommy, you’re a regular ghoul!” said Bob.

“What’s that?” asked Tom.

“Don’t you know what a ghoul is, you ignoramus?”

“A football goal, do you mean?” asked Tom innocently.

When the laughter had died away, they decided to keep along the south
shore until they reached Peconic Bay. Then they would cross the
island to the north side and return along the edge of the Sound to
Barrington, where they hoped to find Jerry.

During the last five minutes of the conference Tom had been nodding
shamelessly. They woke him up, disposed of Barry for the night, and
went to bed.




CHAPTER XV

TELLS HOW THEY MEET THE MANNIG BASEBALL CLUB AND HOW NELSON AND BOB GET
ENGAGEMENTS


They made an early start the next morning. There was a delicious fresh
breeze blowing from the bay, they were well rested, and life was well
worth living. For an hour they walked briskly and put several miles
of hard, smooth road behind them. Then the sun began to make itself
felt, and their pace slackened. Whenever they caught a glimpse of Fire
Island, Tom looked toward it longingly.

“I’m going over there some time and stay until there’s a storm and a
wreck. Wouldn’t you love to see them rescue folks?”

Bob thought that maybe he would; at any rate, he was quite certain he
would much rather look on than take part.

“I wouldn’t,” answered Tom promptly and with conviction. “I’d love to
be a life saver! Maybe, when I get through college, I will be. Wouldn’t
it be exciting, Bob?”

“Very,” was the unenthusiastic response. “Think of tumbling out of
bed at three o’clock of a winter morning, with the thermometer doing
stunts around zero, and taking a nice brisk row for a half a mile or so
through waves as high as that house over there! Yes, indeed, Tommy, it
would be simply sweet!”

Tommy’s further remarks on the subject were interrupted by sounds on
the road behind them. They turned and moved aside in time to escape
being run down by a coach drawn by two horses and filled with a merry
crowd of men and boys, some in gray baseball uniforms and others in
ordinary attire. As the coach swept past, the Four were treated to a
cheer, a wonderful medley which sounded about as intelligible as a
Choctaw war cry. Behind the first coach was a second similarly filled,
and this one slowed down as it reached them.

“Want a ride?” sung out a fellow in baseball attire who occupied the
seat with the driver. The Four looked at each other inquiringly.

“We might ride for a little ways,” suggested Tom sheepishly.

The fellow in front accepted their hesitation as assent.

“Pile in there behind,” he said. “You’ll find room somewhere!”

“Sure!” called a voice from the body of the coach, which was one of
those long vehicles with seats running lengthwise on either side, known
in some localities as a “barge.” “Sure! Lots of room. Come on!”

So they went. A boy hanging on to the steps behind dropped out of the
way, and they climbed in. The occupants, a merry, good-natured throng,
shoved and pushed until there was room for the newcomers, and the coach
started up again. Many curious looks were cast at the boys’ packs, and
finally,

“Going over to the game?” asked Dan’s nearest neighbor.

“What game is that?” asked Dan politely.

“Oh, I thought perhaps you were going,” was the reply. “It’s the game
between Laurelville and Mannig; baseball, you know. We play ’em every
year for a purse.”

“Oh,” said Dan, in turn. “Where’s it to be?”

“Laurelville this year. We’re the Mannig team--and rooters,” he added
with a laugh. “The fellow that called out to you is Burns, our captain
and third baseman. It’s going to be a great game. Everybody turns out,
you know.”

“I see. Are you going to win?”

“Not likely, I guess,” was the answer. But a howl of protest arose.

“Sure, we are!”

“Beat ’em silly!”

“We won’t do a thing to ’em!”

Dan’s informant grinned and dropped his voice.

“They’ll lick us for keeps, I guess,” he said cheerfully. “Our
pitcher’s sick and can’t play. We tried to get Monroe, of Brooklyn;
ever hear of him? Well, he’s a dandy, but he wanted more than we could
pay. We offered him thirty-five too!”

“But--do the other fellows let you get players from outside?” asked Dan.

“Oh, yes, we get ’em wherever we can find ’em. So does Laurelville.
Their pitcher is Somes, of Rockaway, and he’s a dandy. We won’t be able
to hit him at all. And they’ve got a catcher, too, that’s just about
all right!”

“Where is Laurelville?” asked Bob.

“About four miles farther. You fellows had better come along and see
the game.”

“Maybe we will,” answered Bob. “What do you say, Nelson?”

“I’m willing,” was the answer. “Can we get something to eat there?”

“Yes, indeed; there’s a fine hotel at Laurelville. You’d better come
along and root for us.”

“All right,” laughed Nelson. “We’ve got good loud voices.”

“Yes,” agreed Dan; “this fellow here got first prize once for making a
noise; didn’t you, Tommy?”

“Shut up,” answered Tom, with a grin.

A fellow in baseball togs who appeared to be about twenty-five or -six
years of age, and who was sitting on the other side of the coach,
leaned forward and asked smilingly:

“I suppose you fellows don’t play?”

“Not much,” answered Bob carelessly.

Perhaps it was Tom’s look of surprise or the twinkle in Dan’s eye which
made the other doubt the truth of Bob’s assertion.

“Because, you know,” he continued, “we need a pitcher like anything,
and we could use a good batsman somewhere. And there’d be a little
money in it too.”

Tom nudged Bob and looked excitedly at Nelson.

“Why don’t you, Nel?” he exclaimed.

“You dry up, Tommy,” answered Nelson.

“Look here,” said the player, leaving his seat and swaying unsteadily
in front of the Four, “if any of you fellows can pitch we’ll make it
worth your while!”

“Thanks,” answered Nelson; “but you mustn’t mind Tommy; he’s not
altogether sane; has fits once in a while.”

“But, look here, I’m in earnest!” continued the other. The other
members of the Mannig delegation were leaning forward and listening
interestedly.

“Well, what Tommy means is that I have pitched,” answered Nelson, a
trifle embarrassed, “but I wouldn’t do for you chaps. I’m not fancy
enough.”

“Tell you what we’ll do,” said the other excitedly. “You come with us
and show us what you can do before dinner. And if we like the looks of
it, we’ll give you twenty dollars to pitch the game for us. And if
any of the rest of you can hit well, we’ll find a place for you in the
outfield and pay you ten dollars. That’s a fair offer, isn’t it?”

“Fair enough,” answered Nelson laughingly. “But we couldn’t take your
money, you see, because we’re going to college next year, and if we did
we wouldn’t be able to play there.”

“Oh, pshaw, we don’t know your names or anything about you,” was the
reply. “We’ll all forget it to-morrow. You needn’t be afraid of that.”

“Thanks,” answered Nelson dryly, “but I’d rather not.”

Tom looked greatly disappointed.

“Show them what you can do, Nel,” advised Bob. “It will be rather good
fun. I’d like to play myself,” he added, turning to the player. “I’m
not in practice, I guess; haven’t played since last month, and then not
much; but I can hit sometimes.”

“Prove it and I’ll pay you ten dollars for the game!” said the other
quickly. “I’m manager and I can do what I say; and I will do it too.”

“Oh, no, you won’t!” laughed Bob good-naturedly. “If you want me to
help you out, I’ll do it, but I won’t take any money for it. That’s
understood. How about you, Nel? Want to try pitching? You can do it,
I’ll bet.”

“I’ll play if you will,” answered Nelson.

“Where do Tommy and I come in?” asked Dan. He turned to the Mannig
manager. “Want anyone to peddle popcorn or sell lemonade?” he inquired
gravely.

“Don’t you play?” asked the manager, casting an admiring glance over
Dan’s figure.

“Me? Why, I was with the Clevelands for three years,” answered Dan.
“But I’ve been ill, and the doctor thinks I’d better stay out of the
game for a while.”

“I see,” answered the other with a laugh. Then he squeezed himself
between Bob and Nelson, and asked questions and answered them.

It seemed that the annual game between Laurelville and Mannig had
become an event of some importance in that part of the island. They had
played each other for six years, during which time each team had won
three games. This year’s contest was, therefore, in a way decisive.
Each year the merchants and citizens of the rival towns donated a purse
of five hundred dollars, four hundred of which went to the victors and
one hundred to the vanquished. Each team secured players wherever they
could find them, paying such prices for their services as they could
afford. And as the residents of the two towns were extremely generous
in the matter of donations, some of the prices paid to crack players
were pretty high. The umpire, explained the manager--who told them his
name was Fultz--was a professional from New York. Their team, Fultz
went on to explain, had had rather hard luck this season; two of their
best men had deserted them, and their pitcher was ill in bed. As a
result they weren’t very hopeful of victory.

“Unless,” he added, observing Nelson anxiously, “you can help us out a
good bit.”

But Nelson spoke very modestly of his prowess, and the manager’s hopes
dwindled. Presently the Mannig captain, Burns, saw that something was
up and came back to them. Introductions were made, and Burns declared
himself highly pleased at the prospect of being assisted by Nelson and
Bob. But, nevertheless, he didn’t look especially enthusiastic. Perhaps
the two, in their travel-stained pedestrian costumes, didn’t look very
much like adept ball players.

Laurelville, which they reached at about half-past ten, proved to be
quite a fair-sized town; and it was very evident that it was in holiday
garb and holiday humor. The windows of the stores were liberally
decorated with green and white, and flags and streamers of the same
colors were flaunted from the fronts of the buildings. When the coaches
reached the hotel the porch of that hostelry was already pretty well
crowded with guests. Naturally, the arrival of the Mannig contingent
occasioned not a little interest. The adjacent sidewalk was crowded
with small boys, and their remarks as the rival players descended from
the coaches were more graphic than complimentary. Tom descended to a
veritable fusillade of comment.

“Say, look at the fat boy!”

“Bet yer he can run fine!”

“Get out! He ain’t no player; he’s the backstop, he is!”

Tom showed symptoms of annoyance, and to prevent hostilities Dan
lugged him quickly up the steps of the hotel. After they had all
registered, and the Four had been impressively introduced to almost
every Mannigite, they adjourned to a vacant lot back of the house and
held an hour’s practice, observed and criticised by most of the younger
population of Laurelville. Nelson showed what he could do at twirling,
and, although at first he was rather wild and uncertain, after a few
minutes he got settled down, and Fultz and Burns looked almost cheerful.

Bob got into the batting work and had no trouble in putting the ball
wherever he wanted to. But, of course, the delivery was easy enough to
hit, and his performance then was no criterion of what would happen in
the game. At twelve they went back to the house and were instructed to
rest until dinner time. Many of the players found seats on the porch,
where they indulged in a battle of repartee with the local wits lined
up along the curbstone. Others sought the billiard room and spent
most of that hour of rest walking about the tables. Tom and Dan took
a walk through the village, accompanied by Barry. The latter seemed
to understand that for the present he owed allegiance to Mannig, and,
coming across a yellow dog decorated with a bunch of green and white
ribbon, proceeded to inflict summary punishment and establish the
superiority of the visitors. By the time Dan had dragged him away from
his prey the green and white ribbon wasn’t worth talking about. Barry
stood the subsequent cuffing with equanimity, and trotted on again
behind his master with a knowing leer in his eye and a section of
tattered ribbon hanging rakishly and defiantly from the corner of his
mouth.

The main street of the town was becoming quite populous with vehicles,
and the holiday atmosphere increased every moment. The game was the
one important and all-absorbing topic of conversation. When the two
stopped to buy some sweet chocolate at a corner fruit stand, the
Italian proprietor asked eagerly who they thought would win, and
when, later on, returning to the hotel, they entered a drug store for
egg phosphates, the clerk who served them was full of questions and
information.

“They tell me,” he said, “that Mannig’s got a fellow to pitch for them
who was with the Hoboken team last year, a regular peach. Did you hear
anything about it?”

Dan looked wise as he sipped his phosphate.

“Something,” he answered. “I was talking with Burns, the Mannig
captain, awhile ago. But I understood that the pitcher is a fellow
named Tilford who pitched for Chicora.”

“Where’s that?” asked the clerk.

“New Hampshire.”

“Good team?”

“Fine! Beat everything in sight, they tell me. And this pitcher is a
corker. Your men here won’t be able to touch him; he’s got a slow drop
that’ll make them look silly!”

“Are you a Mannig fellow?” asked the clerk suspiciously.

“No, we’re strangers here; just happened along this morning. Would you
mind putting a bit more milk in this? It’s a little too sweet.”

The clerk obeyed, thereby practically doubling Dan’s drink. Tom watched
enviously, and looked doubtfully at his own glass, which was about
empty, in the hope that the clerk would offer to perform a like service
for him. But the clerk was busy talking again, and paid no attention.

“Well, we think we’ve got a pretty good pitcher ourselves,” he said
smugly. “Ever hear of ‘Slim’ Somes, of Rockaway?”

Dan said he had, neglecting to add that the only occasion on which he
had heard of Mr. Somes was that morning in the coach. The clerk nodded
with satisfaction.

“Well, just you keep your eyes on him,” he advised. “He’s one of the
best there is, he is. And if you want to bet anything on the game, I
know where you’ll find some one to oblige you.”

“Thanks,” answered Dan carelessly. “I make it a rule never to bet. I’m
so lucky that it seems too bad to take the other chap’s money every
time; I get ashamed of myself. Well, good luck.”

They went out and made their way along the crowded sidewalk to the
hotel, the only incident of moment occurring when Barry was suddenly
missed, and was discovered a minute later in a baker’s shop, where he
had “treed” a big Maltese cat on top of a showcase. The woman in charge
was highly indignant, and threatened Dan with the law until he squared
himself by purchasing three jelly tarts for a nickel, and admiring the
cat.

Dinner was a confused and hurried meal, for there were at least three
applicants for every place at the four long tables, and to eat calmly
with a dozen persons crowding about and waiting for your chair was
simply out of the question.

The game was to begin at half-past two, and at two the coaches came
to the door again, and the Mannig party tumbled into them, and were
driven away to a chorus of hoots and jeers from the audience outside
the hotel. The ball ground was on the outskirts of the town, a very
creditable field with a grand stand capable of seating several hundred
persons. The Mannig team took the field for practice. Nelson and Bob
had been presented with uniforms of gray flannel bearing big blue
Ms on the breasts of the shirts, uniforms secured from a couple of
substitutes only after persuasion almost amounting to main force. Bob
was put at right field. It had been some time since he had played in
the outfield, for his position was behind the bat, but after a few
flies had come his way he gained the old knack of judging. For several
years he had played on his high-school team, and last spring he had
been elected captain. Besides this he had played with and captained
the Camp Chicora team for the past two summers. Dan, too, was by this
time a fairly experienced player. At school he was only the substitute
pitcher, but in spite of that he was pretty clever. At Chicora he had
done excellent service the past summer in the box, and he and Bob had
comprised a very formidable battery. During practice he warmed up by
pitching to the Mannig catcher, a long, lanky youth, named Conly, and
it soon became evident that they were going to work together very well.

By half-past two the grand stand was comfortably filled and the
ground around the diamond was well sprinkled with spectators. Quite
a contingent had followed the blue players from Mannig, and their
ear-splitting yell was heard continuously. At a few minutes before
the half-hour Mannig gave up the field to Laurelville, and the
green-and-white-stockinged players trotted out for practice.

When it was twenty minutes of three the Mannig manager returned to
the bench where his players were seated and announced that the umpire
hadn’t turned up, and that it had been decided to wait until the next
train came in.

“When does it get here?” asked Burns.

“Two-fifty-six,” was the answer.

“Gee! That’ll make it mighty late!”

“Yes, but that’s the only thing to do, I guess.”

So they waited. Presently the Laurelville team came off, and the
audience on the stand began to inquire, in the polite manner common to
baseball audiences, why the game didn’t start. At ten minutes after
three the tardy official, a little, round red-cheeked man, put in his
appearance, and at twenty minutes after three called “Play!”




CHAPTER XVI

WHEREIN NELSON AND BOB PLAY BALL AND LAURELVILLE MAKES A PROTEST


That was a strange and wonderful game!

Neither Nelson nor Bob--nor for that matter Tom nor Dan, who merely
looked on--ever quite forgot it. The first inning was not over before
it became evident that in the annual contests between Mannig and
Laurelville “everything went.” It was “anything to win,” and “dirty
playing” was not only looked for but applauded vigorously. The rivalry
was intense, and the feeling between the opposing teams was not of the
best.

That first inning ended without a score. Mannig had won the toss
and had gone into the field. Nelson had disposed of the first three
Laurelville batsmen in short order, and his reputation, which had
grown at leaps and bounds during the forenoon, went up still farther.
He was variously said to be a “second-string” pitcher from the New
York American team, an A1 twirler from the Hobokens, borrowed for the
occasion, and a youthful wonder from some small team in New Hampshire.
Nelson, however, was quite unaware of the interest and curiosity which
he was arousing.

But if Laurelville had failed to get to first in that inning, Mannig
could boast of no better success. Her first three men went out quickly,
Burns flying to shortstop, Morris striking out, and Kleinschmidt being
easily beaten to first by the ball. There was all sorts of noise from
the audience, and everybody, from the small boys along the base lines
to the players themselves, showed intense excitement.

Laurelville had no better luck during her second inning, Nelson
disposing of three men with exactly seventeen deliveries.

Harrison, the Mannig second baseman, a fellow of twenty-six or -seven
years and a powerful batter, opened up for his side in the last of the
second. He didn’t find Mr. “Slim” Somes very difficult, it seemed, for
he caught the first ball delivered on the end of his bat and sent it
flying over first baseman’s head for a hit. The next batsman sent him
on to second and was caught himself at first. Then came Fultz, the
manager, who played in center field. He had two strikes called on him
before he offered. Then he found something to his liking and knocked
a long fly into left field. Left fielder failed to get under it, and
Harrison romped home. Fultz was safe on first.

The Laurelville supporters jeered and shouted in an effort to drown
the wild acclaim of the Mannigites, but to little purpose. If Mannig’s
cheer wasn’t musical, it was at least powerful, and it made the welkin
ring for a while. By the time things had quieted down somewhat, Bob
was at the plate. Fultz evidently expected a sacrifice which would
put him on second, but Bob wasn’t used to playing sacrifices with one
man out. The result was that on the first delivery Fultz streaked for
second. The Laurelville catcher shot the ball down to shortstop, and
Fultz walked off the diamond to the hoots and catcalls of the enemy.
The incident worried Bob somewhat, and in a moment he had struck out.
Fultz was feeling a trifle sore and let Bob know it as they trotted out
to the field together. But Bob expressed such deep contrition that the
manager regained his temper and laughed it off.

The first of the third brought the Laurelville tail-enders to the bat,
but the tail-enders proved more formidable that inning than the head
of the batting list had theretofore. The second man up--the first had
been easily disposed of--found Nelson for a two-bagger. The next man,
the redoubtable Somes, got Nelson so rattled by his remarks and monkey
tricks that Nelson gave him, very unwillingly, you may be certain, his
base on balls. Then came a wild throw to third by Conly, who hoped to
catch the runner napping, and Laurelville scored her first run.

If there had been noise before, there was pandemonium now!

Kleinschmidt, the Blue’s left fielder, who had very neatly backed up
third baseman and so prevented a second tally, tossed the ball back to
Nelson in disgust. Burns, from third, was venting his anger on everyone
within sound of his voice, and Nelson didn’t escape.

“No more gifts, Tilford!” he cried. “If you can’t put them over, hit
him with it! Only don’t let him walk!”

Nelson turned back to the next batsman, suddenly experiencing a deep
dislike for the whole business. They were all a crowd of muckers, he
told himself, and he wished he hadn’t agreed to pitch for them. But
now that he was in it he had to keep it up. So he tried to steady down
and dispose of the batter. But Conly was exasperated over his wild
throw and let the first delivery pass him, and the man on second got to
third. A hit would mean a second tally. Nelson tried an outcurve, but
the batsman only smiled. Then Nelson gave him a slow, straight ball,
and the batter was caught for a strike. The score was two and one. Then
came a third ball, and Nelson wondered what Burns would say or do if
the batsman walked to first. But a drop improved the situation, even
though Nelson was still, to use baseball parlance, “in a hole.” There
was only one thing to do, and that was to put the ball over the plate
and trust to the fielders. So he did it. But he didn’t have to trust
to the fielders. The man at bat found the delivery, and sent it hard
and straight toward Nelson. It was coming so swiftly that he might have
been excused for letting it pass. But he reached up and brought it
down, even though the shock staggered him for an instant, and then sped
it to third. The inning was over, with the score one to one.

Mannig trotted in, and Conly picked out his bat. He found what he
wanted in Mr. Somes’s second delivery, and hit safe for one base.
Nelson followed with an attempted sacrifice that worked so well that
he not only advanced Conly, but reached first safely himself by a
hairbreadth. That decision of the umpire’s brought out wild protest
from the Laurelville supporters, and an energetic “kick” from the
Green-and-White’s captain. But the umpire wasn’t the sort to let a
player disturb him for very long, and soon the captain had retired to
his position, muttering and glowering. Burns fouled out to catcher, and
Kelly, the Mannig shortstop, was thrown out at first, Conly and Nelson
each securing a change of base. When Kleinschmidt came to the plate,
what was earnestly required was a safe hit, and, being an obliging
chap, Kleinschmidt supplied it, sending the ball whizzing between first
and second basemen, and bringing in both Conly and Nelson. And Mannig’s
war whoop sounded excruciatingly. Harrison waited for something
pleasing, but waited a little bit too long, and the side was out. But
three to one looked very good to Mannig, and Burns begged Nelson to
hold the opponents down.

By this time Nelson had forgotten his displeasure and went into the
box ready to do his level best. And he did it. The first two men
struck out like children, and, although the third reached his base on
a hit and an error of shortstop’s, the fourth batsman could do nothing
against Nelson’s puzzling delivery, and followed in the ignominious
footsteps of the first couple. And Mannig cheered and capered, and
showed very plainly that they were terribly pleased about something.

It was in the fourth that Bob vindicated himself. Simpson fanned out.
Then Fultz, having reached first by being hit on the elbow with the
ball, stole second a moment later. Bob came to the plate and allowed
two deliveries to pass him. The umpire confirmed his judgment. With two
balls to his credit, he wasn’t going to accept any old thing, and so he
waited for Mr. Somes to oblige him with something nice. And while he
waited, the first real trouble occurred.

Fultz, down on second, was keeping both second baseman and shortstop
very much worried. He had shown his ability at stealing bases, and they
were watching him as though he were a mouse, and they two very hungry
cats. That was all right, but when the shortstop, unseen by the umpire,
who was back of the pitcher, undertook to hold Fultz by the arm, the
runner objected. He not only objected, but showed the fact by sending
the Laurelville player over on his back by a well-applied shove. Then
the second baseman took a hand in the argument, and Fultz went down
with a blow on his jaw. At that moment the pitcher ran up with the
ball, and dug it, none too gently, into Fultz’s ribs, and, as Fultz was
reclining somewhat dazed a yard from base, Laurelville claimed that he
had been put out.

But the umpire couldn’t see it that way. So time was called, and while
several incipient riots took place Mannig and Laurelville argued it
over angrily, each side threatening to take its team off the field.
Finally, the umpire took a hand at threatening. His threat was that
if they didn’t go on with the game at once, he’d award it to Mannig.
Whereupon the spectators were finally dispelled and the field cleared.

The incident hadn’t increased the _entente cordiale_, and the opposing
players eyed each other angrily. But in a moment there was a diversion.
And Bob caused it. Others might have lost their heads for the time
being, but not Bob. Mr. Somes, still aggrieved, was off his guard for
an instant, and Bob took advantage of the fact. His bat met the nice,
straight ball with a loud _crack_, and in a moment he was speeding
around the bases, and Fultz, sufficiently recovered from his treatment
to be able to run, trotted leisurely across the plate in a disdainful
manner, which said as loudly as words, “It’s a shame to do it!”

Away out, past center fielder, who was doing a lot of tall running, the
ball had dropped softly to the ground. Bob swung around second and made
for third. Center fielder reached the ball, scooped it up, and hustled
it toward shortstop, who had run out for it. Bob spurned third base
under flying feet and set his face homeward. A chaos of sound reigned.
Shortstop swung about and threw the ball frantically to the plate,
where the catcher, for what to him had seemed an age, had been awaiting
it with outstretched hands.

Friends of Mannig held their breath. Ball and runner were both speeding
for the same goal. It had seemed at first that Bob was certain of a
home run, but the fielding had been extremely fast, and now it appeared
that he was doomed to have his trouble for nothing. If someone had only
had the sense to hold him at third base!

Simultaneously two things happened. The flying sphere settled with a
thud against the catcher’s mitt, and Bob, sliding over the ground in a
cloud of brown dust, touched the plate with the fingers of one eager
hand. Then down came the catcher’s hand and the ball, like a sledge
hammer, and Bob straightened out his legs, rolled over on to his back,
and lay very still.

In an instant the plate, the catcher, the umpire, and the unconscious
form of Bob formed the vortex of a pushing, shouting maelstrom of
humanity. Dan, who had been one of the first to reach Bob’s side,
strove to raise him from the ground for fear that the struggling crowd
would trample upon him, but so close about him were the angry partisans
of Mannig that he could only hold Bob in a sitting position, and beg
for room and air. The catcher, white of face, hemmed in by the enemy,
declared loudly that he had intended no harm, but he was no coward, and
his tone was so defiant that it only added to the wrath of the crowd.
The umpire strove mightily for peace. So far no blow had been struck,
although many hands were clinched and several arms were raised. The
catcher was being jostled back and forth as the throng swayed hither
and thither. Dan, by dint of much tugging, at last lifted Bob in his
arms, and, aided now by Burns and a stranger, fought a way through the
dense throng. Once on the bench, with a sopping towel at his head, Bob
soon regained consciousness and opened his eyes.

“What’s up?” he asked weakly.

“Oh, that blamed catcher took you in the side of the head with the
ball,” answered Dan angrily.

“I know, but what”--he turned his head toward the shouting mass on the
diamond--“what’s doing over there?”

“Free fight, I guess,” said Dan.

“That’s what,” said Burns, the light of battle in his eye. “Look after
him and I’ll see if I can help.”

With that he sped away and was lost in the throng which was pouring on
to the field from the stand.

“He didn’t mean anything,” cried Bob. “It’s all nonsense. Here, let me
up, Dan!”

He climbed to his feet, stood for an instant with blinking eyes, and
then, ere Dan could restrain him, was running toward the center of
the gathering. Dan, calling, followed. But it was hard work getting
through, and long before he reached the scene of trouble the war was
averted.

Bob, shouldering his way into the struggling, shuffling mass with scant
ceremony, tore the catcher out of the hands of a big, ugly-faced tough.
Only one or two of the Laurelville players had managed to reach the
catcher’s side, and for an instant Bob was mistaken by the Mannigites
for another member of the enemy’s forces. A louder growl of rage went
up, but at that moment Bob lifted his voice above the pandemonium.

“Get off the field!” he cried. “I’m not hurt! It was all an accident!
Please get out of the way and let us finish the game!”

“Accident!” exclaimed an ugly, incredulous voice. “Looks like an
accident, don’t it?”

Bob coolly passed a hand over the discolored lump on the side of his
head and smiled.

“That’s all it was,” he replied. “Accidents will happen. If you don’t
get off the field at once, Laurelville will say we interfered with the
game and they couldn’t finish it. And as we haven’t played five innings
yet, we’ll get left!”

“That’s so,” some one agreed. “Come on.”

“Say, you’re a plucky one, kid!” cried another.

Good nature returned, and, laughing and shoving, the throng fought its
way back. As it thinned away about the plate, the Laurelville captain
ran up. Seeing Bob, he turned and made for him.

“Say, what’s the matter with you?” he cried, brandishing his fist
under Bob’s nose. “He didn’t mean to slug you, you baby! For two cents
I’d----”

A hand shot out and swung him about.

“Shut up, Jack!” growled the catcher. “He’s all right; he ain’t made
any kick; he’s just been telling his crowd it was an accident. It was
too.” He looked closely at Bob. Bob nodded.

“Of course,” he answered. “I understand.”

“Well, that’s all right,” said the captain a trifle sheepishly. “I
thought they were doing you up, Ted, old man.”

“Well, I guess they would have if this fellow hadn’t butted in just
when he did,” answered the catcher dryly. He glanced at Bob. “Much
obliged,” he muttered.

Presently order was restored once more and the game went on. Conly went
out at second, after knocking what he and everyone else thought was
a safe two-bagger, and Nelson fell prey to Somes’s deceptive drops.
And the teams changed sides with the score five to one, in favor of
Mannig. The fifth inning commenced with the Laurelville captain at
bat. He led off with a pop fly that ought to have been an easy out,
but which was muffed by Harrison at second. The next man advanced
the captain and went out at first. Then came a clean two-bagger that
brought Laurelville’s second tally. But after that there were no more
hits, and, with the score now five to two, Mannig once more took its
innings. But Burns, Kelly, and Kleinschmidt went out in quick order
without changing the figures. Laurelville trotted in to the bench, and
her captain hailed Burns.

“Say,” he asked, “where’s that pitcher of yours come from?”

“What difference does that make?” asked Burns.

“It makes a lot of difference. He played with some New Hampshire team,
and you can’t get men from outside the State.”

“Oh, come off! Who said so?”

“It’s in the agreement,” was the reply.

“I never saw it!”

“Well, it’s there. And if you play that pitcher, we won’t go on with
the game.”

“Oh, stop if you want to,” replied Burns sweetly. “I guess we’ve got it
cinched all right.”

“We’ll protest it,” was the answer. “You haven’t any business playing
either that pitcher or the fellow in center.”

“Why didn’t you say something about it before we beat you?” demanded
Burns angrily.

“I didn’t know it,” was the answer.

Burns hesitated, and then summoned Fultz. With Fultz went most of the
Mannig team. Thereupon the Laurelville players also joined the group,
scenting trouble. Finally, Fultz called to Nelson.

“Say, where do you live?” he asked.

“Boston.”

“How about you, Hethington?”

“Portland, Maine,” replied Bob.

“All right,” answered Fultz. “I suppose we’ll have to drop ’em. But I
never heard of the fool rule before! We’ll beat you, anyway,” he added
wrathfully.

“Go ahead,” said the Laurelville captain cheerfully. “But you can’t
come any tricks like that on us. I guess we’ve got a good right to
claim the game as it is. You’ve played those fellows for five innings
already.”

“Protest all you like,” answered Burns. “If you didn’t want them to
play, you ought to have said so.”

Fultz turned to Nelson and Bob.

“They say we haven’t any right to play fellows from outside the State,”
he explained. “First I ever knew it. I’m sorry. And we hate to lose you
chaps. But I guess you’ve done pretty well for us. We’re much obliged,
and if you want to change your mind about the pay, we’re still ready to
hand over the money. I’ll see you after the game.”

Nelson and Bob retired to the bench. Neither of them was sorry to get
out of the game. Bob’s head was aching a good deal, and Nelson’s arm
was beginning to feel pretty sore.

“Think they can hold that lead of three runs?” asked Bob.

“I don’t believe so,” Nelson replied. “Depends a good deal on their
pitcher. Who is he?”

“A chap named Sullivan,” answered Bob. “Pretty poor, I guess.”

“Well, let’s stay and see it out, anyway. Hello, you chaps!” he added,
as Dan and Tom came up.

“Hello, yourself,” replied Dan. “What’s the row?”

Nelson explained, and Tom was highly indignant.

“Ho-ho-ho-hope they ch-ch-ch--” he began.

“Yes, indeed, Tommy,” said Bob soothingly, “but I don’t believe they
will choke. They may get beaten, but they probably won’t choke.”

“You might run over and suggest it to them, though,” said Dan
hopefully. “They might be willing to oblige you.”

It soon began to look bad for Mannig. The new pitcher was fast, and
at times puzzling, but he was terribly wild. Conly alone saved his
team from utter rout for a while, stopping many a wild pitch. Then
things began to happen. With one out, Laurelville located the ball, and
started to hammer it to all parts of the diamond. Only the best sort of
fielding kept her from forging ahead then and there. With three men on
bases and but one out, it surely looked for a while as though Mannig’s
sun was about to set. But heady, fast work on the part of the infield
spoiled Laurelville’s chances, and only one run was added to her score
in that inning. But Laurelville trotted out looking hopeful. Next time,
they hoped, they would have better luck. As the Mannig players returned
to the bench, it was plain to be seen that they feared defeat. Fultz
threw himself down beside Dan.

“Gee!” he said. “That was a narrow squeak, wasn’t it?”

“It surely was,” answered Dan. “You fellows did great work.”

“Yes, that was a dandy double.”

Presently Dan said:

“Seems like you are playing against the Laurelville Fire Department.”

Fultz looked puzzled.

“What do you mean?” he asked.

“Oh, a chap over there in the crowd was telling me about it awhile
ago,” answered Dan. “He says more than half the nine are firemen. They
have a volunteer department here, you know. He was wondering what would
happen if an alarm was rung in. He said he bet the Laurelville captain
would let the old town burn up.”

And Dan chuckled at the idea.

“Did he say just how many belonged to the Fire Department?” asked Fultz
carelessly.

“Yes, he said seven out of the twelve players and subs. He told me who
they were, but I didn’t pay any attention.”

“Well, I’m on deck,” said Fultz. “Guess I’ll find my bat.”

But Dan, smiling at his thoughts, noticed that the manager had
apparently changed his mind. For, instead of going to where the bats
were piled, he walked around the bench and across to where a group of
Mannig citizens were watching the contest from the grass back of third
base. There he stooped and spoke to a youth in a dingy suit of clothes.
Presently the youth arose, and he and Fultz wandered away together
toward the end of the grand stand. As the Mannig batsman was at that
moment making his second abortive strike at the ball, it is doubtful if
anyone save Dan noticed them. They conversed together a moment at the
corner of the stand, and then the youth lounged away out of sight, and
Fultz returned and selected his bat. When he had it he turned quickly
and glanced at Dan. Dan was apparently absorbed in the fate of the
batter.

That was speedily decided, for he couldn’t resist a slow drop that had
every appearance of a straight ball, and turned disgustedly away to
toss his bat into the pile. But after that Mannig’s chances appeared to
brighten. With only one man out, she managed to get runners on second
and third, and for a time it looked as though she was about to pile up
some more tallies. The Mannig contingent became wildly enthusiastic,
and their excruciating war whoop filled the air. But their hopes were
doomed to disappointment, for the two runners were obliged to stay just
where they were while the succeeding pair of batsmen struck ignobly
out. And now the seventh inning began with the score five to three, in
favor of the visitors.

Once more the Laurelville players found Sullivan an easy riddle. The
first man up let drive a sizzling grounder between shortstop and third
baseman, and, by good running, barely made second ahead of the ball.
The following batter worried the pitcher until in the end he was sent
to first on four balls. Laurelville was yelling and whooping at a great
rate.

“Here’s where we score!” cried the coachers back of first and third.
“Any old thing will do, Eddie! A nice little three-bagger, if you can!
You can’t miss ’em! He’s easy, he is! On your toes there, Jack! Down
with his arm, old man! _Hey!_”

Then the third batsman cracked out a nice safe hit that was just two
feet out of first baseman’s reach, and although right fielder managed
to get the ball to the plate in time to send the foremost runner
doubling back to third, the bases were full, and there were no outs.




CHAPTER XVII

IN WHICH A FIRE ALARM AIDS MANNIG, AND THE FOUR LEAVE HURRIEDLY


Things looked bad, indeed, for the visiting team. The watchers on the
grand stand were on their feet, shouting continuously. Not a few were
joining the throng on the turf, scurrying to places along the base
lines. Sullivan was plainly rattled, and his first delivery went so
wild that Conly, try as he might, could not reach it. In raced the
runner from third, and, close behind him, the second man. But although
the first reached home safely the other met with misfortune, and was
nailed a yard from the plate. But that was only one out, there was
still a man on third, and the score was five to four. And, another
factor in Laurelville’s favor, her captain and best batsman was facing
Sullivan with a cool, smiling face. One run would tie the score; two
would give the home team the lead. What wonder, then, that Laurelville
went wild with delight, and utterly forsook the grand stand?

Conly and Sullivan met midway between plate and pitcher’s box, and
conferred in whispers to an accompaniment of derisive jeers from the
supporters of the Green-and-White. Then the pitcher returned to his
place, twirled his arms, and shot the ball forward.

_Bang!_

The Laurelville captain had caught it for a nice bunt toward first
base, a slow-rolling, erratic bunt that sent pitcher and first baseman
scurrying for it. And in from third raced the runner. But Simpson found
the ball speedily, scooped it up, and with the same movement sent it in
to catcher. The runner from third saw defeat before him and drew up.
Then he turned back, and in a twinkling catcher and third baseman were
running him down between them. He turned and twisted while the ball
flew back and forth above his head until, at last, almost hemmed in, he
made a desperate lunge toward third, sent Burns staggering aside out
of his path, and reached his refuge in safety. Burns angrily picked up
the ball which had been jostled from his hand, while the Laurelville
supporters cheered and shouted. For, although there had been, contrary
to their captain’s expectations, no tally, the captain himself was
sitting calmly on the bag at second. Then once more Fortune turned her
back on the wearers of the Blue. Sullivan struck the next man with
the ball, and after he had been rubbed and condoled with by half the
Laurelville team, he went limping and grinning to first and filled the
bases again!

Once more Conly strove to calm the erratic Sullivan, and once more the
crowd hooted as catcher and pitcher whispered together. Then Sullivan
went back and faced the next batsman. Up shot his arms, and forward
sped the sphere.

“Ball!” droned the umpire.

Again, and,

“Two balls!” was the verdict.

“Pick out a good one!” called the captain from where he was dancing
about at second. And the coaches shrieked and leaped in their efforts
to further disturb the equanimity of the already badly rattled pitcher.
Sullivan rubbed a hand in the dirt, wiped it on his trousers, and
settled the ball in it carefully, striving to collect himself.

“Take your time, Jim!” called Conly cheerfully. “Plenty of time, old
man!”

But there wasn’t, for at that moment from the center of town came the
wild alarm of a clanging fire bell!

For an instant everyone stood as though turned to stone; everyone save
the Mannig pitcher. Perhaps he didn’t hear. At all events he shot the
ball across the plate, right over the very center of it, and the umpire
called a strike. And, as though that had been the signal, all the
Laurelville players began shouting at once. Down on second the captain
was calling wildly for “Time.” The umpire was surrounded by half a
dozen players each explaining breathlessly. So “Time” was announced.
Fultz came racing in from center field.

“What’s time taken out for?” he cried.

“Fire!” shouted the Laurelville captain, looking excitedly about for
his cap.

“What’s that got to do with the game?” demanded Fultz.

“Why, we’re most of us members of the company,” was the reply. “We’ll
go on with the game after a bit. Come on, fellows! We’ll have to run
for it!”

And led by their redoubtable captain the Laurelville Baseball Team
streaked off the field in the direction of the town. And behind it
hurried most of the spectators, for a fire promised far greater
excitement than even a baseball game. The Mannig players trotted up
with surprised expressions on their faces, demanding to know what the
trouble was. Burns turned to the umpire.

“Mr. Umpire,” he said, “we’re ready to go on with the game.”

The umpire looked nonplused.

“Er--well, we’ll wait awhile and then, if the other team doesn’t show
up, I’ll have to call the game.”

In five minutes the field was deserted save for the Mannig players
and a handful of Mannig supporters. Everyone else was scurrying along
the road leading to town. Dan, a quiet smile on his face, drew Nelson
aside.

“Let’s get out of this,” he whispered. “It’s not going to be healthy
around here after a bit. Let’s move on to the next town.”

Nelson looked perplexedly at Dan’s smiling countenance for a moment.
Then, scenting mischief, he nodded and went in search of Tom and Bob.
Without explaining, he announced that they were breaking camp, and in a
twinkling the Four were following the crowd. On the way Dan told what
he knew about it, and the others laughed until the tears streamed down
their dusty faces--all save Bob. Bob smiled a bit, but he shook his
head too.

“It’s kind of a low trick, Dan,” he said.

“But I didn’t do it,” protested Dan. “I merely told Fultz what I had
heard. It wasn’t my fault if----”

“But you expected him to do it!”

“What of it? Of course I expected him to; it was just the sort of a
trick I’d expect these muckers to do!”

“That sounds well from you,” answered Bob dryly.

“Oh, get out! I didn’t tell him to do it; I didn’t even suggest it!
Why, when that bell rang I was so surprised----!”

Bob had to laugh in spite of himself.

“Well, just at present what we’ve got to do is to get our things from
the hotel before the irate citizens of this charming village discover
that they’ve been hoaxed! And I move that we move faster!”

And they did. When they reached the hotel they found it deserted save
for a sixteen-year-old boy, the proprietor’s son, who was evidently not
staying there from inclination. They found him on the sidewalk, looking
longingly toward where at the far end of the main street a confused
rabble was pouring around a distant corner.

“Where’s the fire?” asked Dan.

“I don’t know exactly,” was the excited reply, “but it’s somewhere over
by the railroad.”

“How far is that?” asked Dan.

“Pretty near a mile. And they say it’s a daisy! Maybe it’s Tompkins’s
lumber yard!”

The Four heaved sighs of relief. Before Tompkins’s lumber yard was
reached by the valiant fire fighters they hoped to be well on their
road. Very quickly they rescued their packs, slung them on their
shoulders, and, to use Tom’s expression, “hit the trail.” Once out of
sight of the hotel they paused while Bob consulted his map.

“Cupples’ Harbor is three miles,” announced Bob. “That’s where we’d
better make for.”

“All right,” responded Nelson, with a laugh. “Any place out of here!”

“How do we go?” Dan asked.

“Straight ahead and turn to the left about four blocks down,” was the
reply. So straight ahead they went, and allowed no grass to grow under
their feet. When they had almost reached their turning they heard a
great noise behind, and paused to see what it was. Down the street
trotted the two Mannig coaches filled with their exultant passengers.
The Mannig war whoop aroused the echoes of the almost deserted town.

“The umpire’s called the game,” chuckled Dan.

When the first coach was abreast of them they were recognized and
loudly cheered. They waved their hands in response while the occupants
of the coaches showered unintelligible messages upon them. But as the
second load went by, one remark met their ears which they understood.
Fultz, beaming and red of face, leaned far out over the side, made a
megaphone of his hands, and shouted:

“You fellows had better get out of here pretty quick!”

Dan winked merrily.

“Trust us!” he shouted back.

The fire bell which had been ringing incessantly for ten minutes
stopped suddenly as the Four turned from the main street and smelled
the salt air from the ocean. In ten minutes they were well out of
Laurelville, and slackened their pace.

“What’ll happen?” asked Tom. “When they find out, I mean.”

“They’ll be so mad they won’t be able to see straight,” chuckled Dan.
“And if they find any Mannig citizen roaming around, they’ll probably
make life very interesting for him!”

“Do you suppose they’ll be able to prove that Mannig did it?” asked Bob.

“Sure to. They’ll find that the fellow who brought the alarm was a
stranger, and guess at once.”

“Still, I don’t see how they are going to prove it!”

“Well, maybe they won’t,” allowed Dan. “But there’s one thing you can
bet on, and that is, no matter whether Mannig gets the purse or not,
there won’t be any more baseball games between the two towns for a
while!”

“And a good thing too!” said Nelson. “That sort of baseball makes me
tired!”

They reached Cupples’ Harbor at a little before six, very hungry, and
somewhat tired. After supper Dan said:

“Say, do you fellows realize that it’s just a week since we left New
York?”

“A week!” shouted Tom.

“Get out!” said Nelson. “It seems a month!”

“It surely does,” Bob agreed. “But we’ve had a pretty good time so far,
haven’t we?”

“Dandy!” said Tom. Nelson laughed.

“We’re forgetting about being robbed, and going hungry, and all the
rest of it!”

“That’s so,” answered Dan. “Gee! Weren’t we a disgusted lot the day we
trailed into Millford? For two cents I’d have jumped a train and gone
home!”

“Guess that was the way with all of us,” said Bob. “Only we didn’t have
the two cents!”

The next morning when they tumbled out of their beds they found the
rain dashing against the windows, and an old-fashioned sou’easter
having things pretty much its own way. To continue their journey in the
face of such a storm was out of the question, and so they got their
soiled clothes together, and made arrangements to have them washed in
the hotel, and dried in time for them to go on the next day.

There were few guests left, and the Four had the house almost to
themselves that day. After breakfast they got into their rubber
ponchos, and braved the tempest. The surf was fine, and they watched
a long time from the shelter of an old hut on the point, about a mile
from the hotel. They got pretty wet, but it was great fun; and the
roaring fire in the hotel soon dried them off after they got back. The
rest of the day passed quickly enough with books and cards, and they
went early to bed.

The next morning the rain still fell, but the wind had died away, and
after a consultation they decided to go on. Their clean clothes were
brought up to them, and after they had put some of them on, Nelson
said he felt respectable for the first time in three days. The walking
was hard, but they did five miles by half-past eleven, and stopped at
Seapoint for luncheon or dinner, whichever it might turn out to be. It
happened to be dinner, and, as they were all frightfully hungry, they
ate a good deal, and felt very little like continuing their journey
afterwards. Tom was for spending the night where they were, but he
was overruled, and at two o’clock they set out for Beach Neck, eight
miles farther east. The rain, which had once or twice sobered down to a
drizzle, now held up entirely, although the clouds still hung low and
ominous. The road, however, constantly got worse, and it was slow going.

“I see where we get a late dinner to-night,” said Dan, at about three
o’clock. “I’ll bet we haven’t gone two miles in the last hour!”

“Told you we’d ought to stay where we were,” said Tom.

“And I guess you were right, Tommy, my boy. Never say die, though!” And
Dan hitched his pack into place, and trudged on. By four, they were
still but little more than halfway to Beach Neck, and Bob got his map
out.

“Well,” asked Nelson, “is there any sign of civilization around here?”

“Not very near,” answered Bob. “But, say, the railroad strikes the road
near here somewhere--just beyond, I guess--and it’s lots nearer than
the road we’re on.”

“Nearer what?”

“I mean it’s shorter that way to Beach Neck than it is by the road.”

“Gee! Then let’s take it!”

“Railroads are mighty hard walking, though,” said Tom.

“Can’t be much harder than this sloppy, sandy quagmire,” said Dan. “I
move we hit the ties.”

So they did when, as presently happened, the railroad came into sight
and ran along the highway in a neighborly fashion for a little way.
It was hard walking, as Tom had predicted, especially at first. But
after awhile they got into what Dan called “the swing of it,” and it
wasn’t so bad. At least, as Bob pointed out, it was a deal drier. But
Tom answered that he didn’t see that that counted for much, because his
feet were sopping wet already.

Half an hour later, without any warning, the rain started in again in a
fashion that almost took their breath away. It came down in torrents,
so that they could see scarcely a yard ahead of them, and made such a
racket, besides, that Bob called a halt.

“Look here,” he gasped, “we can’t see nor hear anything, and this track
isn’t a healthful place for us; a train could come along and knock us
into the next county without our getting so much as a hint of it.”

They were at the beginning of a little cut, where the track had been
built through a wooded hill.

“Gee!” sputtered Tom, and stumbled down the embankment to the side
of the track. The others followed. The raindrops lashed their rubber
ponchos, drenched their heads, and trickled down their backs. Barry,
with what remained of his tail tucked as far under him as it would go,
sought shelter from the pelting drops at Dan’s feet.

“Let’s break for cover!” shouted Nelson.

They broke. Nelson led the way, stumbling along what at one time
had been an embankment, on which a spur track had run a few hundred
yards to a gravel quarry. The quarry had become almost obliterated
with underbrush and trees, and it was under one of the largest of the
latter that the Four finally drew up, panting. The hill rose abruptly
behind them, but the sheets of rain were so dense that they could make
out but little of their surroundings. The tree, a young maple with
wide-spreading branches, kept the worst of the torrent off them for the
moment.

“These ponchos are all very nice,” said Dan, “but they have their
limitations. I’ll bet you’d get six gallons of water out of me if you
wrung me. Can’t we find a better place than this? The roof’s leaking,
and the merry little raindrops are playing tag down my back.”

“How far do you suppose we are from Beach Neck?” asked Nelson.

“At least a mile,” answered Bob. “You fellows stay here a minute, and
I’ll look around and see if there isn’t a better shelter.”

He brought the poncho closer about his neck, and retied it.

“If I yell, you answer. I may get lost in this drizzle.”

Then he stepped out from under the tossing, dripping branches, and was
lost to sight almost instantly. The others waited silently, their hands
in their pockets for warmth. After awhile Bob shouted, and presently
rejoined them.

“I’ve found an old shed or something over here. Come on.”

He led the way at a run, and they raced after him, gasping for breath
as the solid curtains of rain dashed into their faces. Then they were
under the lee of a building, Bob was wrenching open a door which hung
from one leather hinge, and in a moment they were inside, blinking the
water from their eyes. At first it was too dark in there to see much,
but presently as they became accustomed to it they began to make out
objects in the gray gloom.

The hut, for it was scarcely more, was about twenty feet long and
twelve feet wide. There was one door, through which they had entered,
and two windows, one still containing the remnants of a sash, and
the other having been roughly boarded up. Along the back of the hut
remnants of a double tier of wooden bunks remained. In the center
of the floor, resting on four bricks, was a rusty stove. At one time
there had been a pipe leading through the roof, as the round hole
there indicated. But now the pipe was gone, and the hole leaked water
like a spout. The place was littered with rubbish, old newspapers, tin
cans, and bottles, a broken pick, and a worn-out pair of overalls.
Bob lighted a match, and they explored, kicking their way through the
_débris_.

“Not what you’d call a first-class hotel,” observed Dan.

“No,” said Tom. “And it’s evidently very much on the European plan.”

“Unless you can eat tin cans, Tommy,” answered Bob. “But it’s dry,
anyhow, and that’s something. And seems to me we might manage a fire in
that stove with some of this truck.”

“We’ll be smoked out.”

“We might leave the door open. Anyhow, let’s see.”

So they stuffed the old stove full of paper, added a few pieces of wood
which they found, and touched it off. It was smoky, there was no doubt
about that, but it looked cheerful, and after a minute or two even gave
some warmth. The rain drove in through the door at times, and prevented
the smoke from going out, but save that it occasioned an epidemic of
coughing, the fire was quite a success.

“Let’s see if we can’t get some of that wood from the bunks,” suggested
Nelson.

It was hard work until Dan thought of the broken pick. He showed that
a pick may be used as an ax when occasion demands, and soon they had
quite a respectable pile of firewood by the stove. Bob borrowed the
implement, and tore off the boarding from the window, thus supplying
more fuel, and creating a cross draught that cleared a good deal of the
smoke out. By this time the stove was getting red hot, and they stood
around it, having thrown aside their ponchos, and steamed and regained
their good humor.

“Say, Nel,” asked Dan, “what does this remind you of?”

“Turkish bath,” answered Nelson.

“No, but do you remember the hut in the woods at Chicora last summer?
This rain’s a dead ringer for that one, except that there isn’t any
thunder and lightning.”

“Don’t suggest it,” warned Bob.

“Yes, and do you remember how scared you were at that skeleton?”
laughed Nelson.

“You don’t say?” drawled Dan. “I guess I wasn’t the only one who was
scared. If Bob hadn’t grabbed you as you went through the door, you’d
have been running yet.”

“Pshaw!” said Nelson with a grin. “I wasn’t scared; I was just going
for assistance.”

“I suppose there’s no supper for us to-night,” said Tom hopelessly.

“Supper? What do you want supper for?” asked Bob. “Didn’t you eat
enough dinner to last you a week?”

“We’re a lot of idiots not to keep some chocolate or something of that
sort in our pockets,” said Nelson. “You bet that when I get to a store
I’m going to lay in a supply.”

“Wish I had some now,” wailed Tom.

“We might eat Barry,” suggested Bob.

“You might get killed too,” said Dan grimly. “This old rain will have
to hold up after a while.”

“It’s holding us up just at present,” observed Nelson.

And apparently it was contented to continue doing that, for the open
doorway turned from a misty-gray oblong to a black, and still the
downpour continued. There wasn’t a watch among them, and so they had no
way of telling time.

“Well,” said Bob, filling the stove up again, “we’ve got a dry place
to sleep, and that’s something. I vote we go to bed as soon as we can
sleep, and get an early start. Beach Neck can’t be far off, and we can
make up for supper at the breakfast table.”

“Sounds good to me,” answered Dan. “But I’m not the least bit sleepy;
only hungry.”

“Same here,” murmured Tom wistfully. He was sitting on the floor as
near to the stove as he could get without scorching, and Barry was
curled up in his lap. “If you and I had a dog biscuit, Barry, we could
do a dandy trick with it, couldn’t we?”

But Barry only wagged his stump of tail drowsily.

“He’s the only philosophic one among us,” said Nelson. “He didn’t have
a tenth as much dinner as we did, and look at him! Not a whimper!”

Whereupon Barry suddenly sat up, pricked his ears, and growled. Bob and
Tom began to laugh, but Dan held up his hand.

“Wait a minute!” he whispered. “Barry hears something.”

The dog slipped stealthily from Tom’s lap and moved toward the door,
sniffing and growling. They listened and watched. Then simultaneously
Barry broke into fierce barking, and a face appeared in the dark frame
of the doorway.




CHAPTER XVIII

TELLS OF AN ADVENTURE IN A HUT


Tom scrambled to his feet, Barry retreated, still barking and growling
furiously, with the hair on his neck and along his back standing
straight up, and the newcomer stumbled through the doorway, wiping his
face, and peering nervously about in the half-light.

“Who’s here?” he muttered. “Mind your dog, can’t yer? Think I want to
be bit?”

There was no answer. The boys were looking at each other with wide
eyes. Then, quietly, Bob stole to the door and pulled it to. Dan seized
Barry in his arms.

“A wet night,” observed Dan politely.

“_Wet!_” muttered the new arrival angrily. He was rubbing the water
from his eyes, and striving to get a look at the other occupants of the
hut. “I’m nigh drowned, I am! Wet, says you!”

“Come up to the fire,” continued Nelson, drawing back into the shadows
as though to make room. Then Dan handed the dog to Tom and edged around
the other side of the stove. Bob had left the door, and now, as the
newcomer shuffled toward the stove, casting wary, suspicious glances
into the shadows where the boys hovered, he crept around back of him.
As noiselessly as he moved, however, the other heard, and started to
turn. But he was too late. Bob made a diving tackle that pinioned the
man’s arms to his sides, and together they crashed to the floor, Bob
uppermost. In a twinkle Nelson and Dan were beside him, and the man
underneath might well have cried “Down!” Barry, gurgling and yelping,
struggled and fought in Tom’s arms, and the noise was deafening for a
moment, the captive contributing not a little to the sum of it. Then,

“Hand me a couple of towels, Tom,” called Bob, and Tom, dropping Barry,
fished the desired articles from his crowded pockets. They weren’t very
generous towels, but they served their present purpose. The man was
flopped, fighting hard, over on to his face, and his hands were tied
securely behind him. Then Dan arose gingerly from his struggling legs,
and the second towel was applied neatly at his ankles.

“Now another towel, Tommy, or--hold on! A pair of socks’ll do just as
well,” said Bob.

Tom fished a pair from another pocket, and Bob jammed them into the
man’s mouth, silencing at last the flood of unpleasant language.
Meanwhile Nelson was kept busy fighting Barry off, for the terrier’s
fighting blood was roused, and he was aching to take part in the
proceedings. Then they rolled the captive over on to his back and stood
up, panting.

“There, my friend,” said Bob, brushing his clothes. “That’ll hold you
for a while, I guess. You’ve encountered us about once too often.
It’s a pretty good idea to have a look at your host before you accept
hospitality.”

The man, the same ugly-faced individual who had been “treed” by Barry
in the hotel at Barrington, and subsequently brought to earth by Nelson
on the stairs, moved not an eyelash, but if looks could have killed, it
would have been all up with Bob.

“Now, what’ll we do with him?” asked Nelson, reaching for his tie,
which had worked around under his left ear during the fracas.

“Search him first of all,” answered Bob.

The captive’s eyelids flickered. Dan whistled.

“By Jove!” he said. “I hadn’t thought of that!”

“Do you suppose he’s got anything left?” asked Nelson.

“I don’t know, but I propose to find out,” answered Bob. “Lend a hand,
you fellows, and look carefully.”

“Bu-bu-bu-bet you he’s spent the money,” stammered Tom, whose duty at
the moment was to refrain Barry from doing murder.

“Maybe,” said Bob. He moved over to the thief. “Now, my friend, you
stole about sixty-nine dollars from us, and two watches.”

The head shook vehemently.

“Oh, yes, you did,” answered Bob. “Although if you hadn’t been fool
enough to leave a message behind you we wouldn’t have known it was you,
and you wouldn’t be in your present fix. It ought to be a lesson to you
not to rush into print--or writing, either. You’re not the first man
who’s got into trouble through writing a letter. Now then!”

They ripped open his ragged coat, and went through the pockets, but
the only things to reward their search were a sandwich wrapped in a
piece of newspaper, a piece of lead pipe, about four inches long, with
a short length of rope run through it for a handle, some tobacco and a
corncob pipe, a ragged red bandanna handkerchief, and a handsome new
clasp knife.

“Shows where some of the money went,” commented Dan.

Then they searched his trousers. From a hip pocket came a half-filled,
yellow glass bottle. Bob sniffed it, and threw it across the hut.

“Whisky, I guess,” he muttered. “Smells bad enough.”

At that moment Nelson gave a shout, and held up his gold watch.

“Bully!” cried Dan.

“Fine!” said Bob. “You don’t happen to find mine, do you?”

“Not yet,” answered Nelson, slipping his own watch into his pocket.
“Wonder what he did with it.”

“Well, it isn’t here,” said Dan. “Let’s ask the scoundrel.”

Bob drew the gag out of the man’s mouth.

“Where’s the other watch?” he demanded.

“Where you won’t get it,” was the sullen answer.

“What did you do with it?”

There was a flood of blasphemy for reply.

“Oh, shut him up again,” said Dan in disgust. “If you’ll let me take
those towels off so he can stand up, I’ll knock the tar out of him!”

Bob replaced the gag after a struggle, and the search went on. But
there was no sign of any money save six coppers which Nelson fished out
of a trousers pocket.

“Well, I’m glad you got your watch,” said Bob, as they stopped work for
want of any further recesses to search.

“Wish I had my twenty-six dollars,” said Tom longingly.

“I suppose he blew it in somewhere,” said Dan.

“He’s only had five days to do it,” said Nelson thoughtfully. “It’s
more likely he’s hidden it somewhere.”

“We might make a bargain with him,” said Bob.

“What sort of a bargain?”

“Tell him we’ll let him go if he’ll tell us where the money is.”

“I wouldn’t believe him,” answered Dan.

“And I don’t know that we’ve got any right to let him go,” said Nelson.
“He’s a thief and ought to be in jail.”

“Well, we’ve got the right,” answered Bob. “We gave the police a fair
chance to catch him, and I don’t believe they ever tried. And now we’ve
caught him ourselves, without their help, and we’ve got a right to do
what we want with him.”

“Sure,” agreed Tom.

“Shall I give him the chance?” Bob asked. The others hesitated a
moment. Then Dan nodded, and,

“All right,” said Nelson.

“Well, what do you say?” asked Bob, turning to the thief. “If you’ll
tell us truthfully where you’ve hidden the money, we’ll let you
go--after we’ve found it.”

There was no sign from the captive.

“What do you say?” asked Bob impatiently.

The captive wriggled his head.

“He can’t talk with the gag in his mouth,” said Dan. “Here!”

He stooped down and removed it.

“Well?” said Bob again.

“I spent ther money,” growled the man. “I’m sorry. ’Twon’t do you
fellers no good to put me in jail. Lemme go an’ I’ll clear out o’ here
and stay.”

“You’re wrong,” answered Bob grimly. “It’ll do us a heap of good to put
you in jail. And that’s what we’re going to do. Stuff the socks back,
Dan.”

“Hold on a minute!” said the captive. “How do I know you’ll lemme go?”

“You’ll have to trust us, I guess,” answered Bob.

“Swear yer’ll do it?”

“No,” answered Bob sharply. “But we _tell_ you so; and that’ll have to
be enough.”

The thief stared up at them in silence for a minute. Then,

“All right,” he muttered at last. “It’s in my left boot--all that’s
left of it.”

Nelson was tugging at the wet lacings before he had finished speaking.

“Give me that knife a minute, Dan,” he said. Dan handed him the
captive’s clasp knife, and Nelson cut the soaking strings, and drew off
the boot. In the heel, a damp bundle, lay some bills. Nelson, followed
by the others, moved to the light of the stove and counted them.

“Thirty-five dollars,” he announced finally.

“About half,” said Bob. “Well, that’s not so bad. It’ll pay for our
night’s lodging.”

Nelson stuffed the money in his pocket.

“Let’s try the other,” he said.

“Other what?” asked Dan.

“Boot, you idiot!”

“There’s nothin’ in the other one,” said the man eagerly. “Give yer my
word!”

“Don’t want it, thanks,” answered Nelson as he cut the laces. The
captive began to swear again, and Dan promptly stuffed Tom’s socks into
place again. Nelson drew off the second wet boot and extracted another
wad of bills.

“Twenty-two,” he said. “That makes fifty-seven in all. That’s not so
bad, fellows. I guess we can afford to call quits with our friend
there. He’s welcome to what he got away with, I guess.”

“He hasn’t got any more boots, has he?” asked Tom.

“Untie him now,” said Nelson, “and let him put his boots on again, and
get out of here as soon as he knows how. He deserves to go to jail, but
we promised to let him off.”

“When we let him go,” suggested Tom, “let’s let Barry go too! What do
you say?”

“I say no,” answered Dan. “Barry might bite him.”

“It would serve him right,” said Tom.

“Maybe; but I don’t want Barry poisoned,” replied Dan with a grin.

They untied the man’s hands, and stood back while he unloosed his
ankles and drew the sodden boots on. He said no word during the
operation, but the sullen, hopeless look on his pinched face made even
Tom uncomfortable. Tom had seized the broken pick when they had untied
the thief as though resolved to sell his life dearly.

“Put that thing down,” said Bob disgustedly.

“He may get tr-tr-troublesome!”

“Hope he does,” was the savage reply. “I only wish he’d give me an
excuse to lick him! We’ve no business letting him loose on the--er----”

“Community,” assisted Dan.

But as the man tied the cut laces together and crawled to his feet they
could not help feeling a sort of sneaking sympathy for him. He was a
forlorn specimen of humanity, with a pale, drawn face and little, dull,
blue eyes that just now were fixed almost affrightedly on the door
against which the storm still dashed in torrents. He rubbed his chilled
hands together, looked longingly at the stove and then at Dan. Dan
nodded silently, and he shuffled to the warmth and held his hands out.

“Where are you going?” asked Dan.

“I dunno,” answered the thief. “What’s it to you? You got all’s comin’
to yer, ain’t yer?”

“We have what belongs to us,” answered Dan quietly. “Why don’t you go
home and behave yourself?”

“Home!” said the other bitterly. “Fellers like me don’t have no homes,
you fool!”

Dan was silent. The thief blinked at the red stove, coughing in the
smoke. Then,

“You fellers ain’t treated me bad,” he said huskily. “I ain’t got
nothin’ against yer. I s’pose yer think I’m pretty low down, but I got
my principles, same as you have, only they ain’t the same, I s’pose. I
ain’t never done mean to no friend, I ain’t. Nobody can’t say I don’t
act square. That sounds funny to you fellers, maybe; we’re different;
you’re gen’lemen; I never had no chance to be a gen’leman; I never had
no chance to be anythin’ but what I am. I’m sorry I took yer dough,
boys, ’cause you treated me fair, an’ it ain’t very often I gets
treated fair; folks don’t think it’s worth while to act square with a
feller like me. I’m just a hobo, an’ it’s fair game to kick a hobo when
yer gets ther chance. We steals ’cause we has to; there ain’t nothin’
else we can do. Folks says why don’t you go to work? Who’d have us?
The world ain’t treatin’ us fair, I tells yer that, boys! It keeps a
blamed good watch on us when we’re growed up, but when we’re kids, an’
starvin’ and learnin’ to steal ’cause there ain’t no other way we can
live, the world don’t bother about us. I know what I’m talkin’ about,
I do. Look after ther kids if yer don’t want hobos, that’s the game.
Well, I didn’t mean fer ter give yer no lecture, boys. I ain’t got no
kick against yous; you’ve treated me all right, I guess.”

He buttoned his threadbare coat around his throat, thrust his hands in
his pockets, and moved toward the door.

“Wait a minute,” said Nelson. He took the roll of bills from his pocket
and selected one. “Take this,” he said. “It’ll keep you going for a
while.”

The thief took it, looked at it, and thrust it into his pocket quickly
as though fearing Nelson might change his mind.

“Thanks,” he muttered.

“Before you go,” said Bob, “I wish you’d tell me one thing, just to
satisfy my curiosity. What became of the other watch, the silver one?”

“I give it away,” answered the other sullenly.

“Gave it away? Who to?”

“To a feller I met at Millford, a hobo like me. He was down on his
luck, and I knowed he could get a couple of plunks fer it; so I give it
to him. I’m sorry, I guess, if you wants it bad.”

“Never mind,” answered Bob. “I just wondered where it was.”

Bob moved to the door and pushed it open. A gust of rain dashed in and
drenched the floor, sending the smoke whirling about the room. Outside
a veritable wall of water showed in the glimmering light. The thief
shivered, cast a backward glance at the stove, and plunged out into the
darkness and the storm. Bob stood motionless for an instant. Then,

“Oh, thunder!” he growled, and sprang after the man. In a second
he was back, pushing the thief before him. He looked at the others
apologetically. “I can’t help it, fellows,” he said. “We can’t send even
a dog out into a storm like that.” He turned to the man. “If we let you
sleep here, will you behave yourself?” he demanded.

The thief turned on him almost savagely.

“Ain’t I told yer I acts white to my friends?” he cried with an oath.
“Gimme a corner an’ I won’t trouble no one.”

Bob glanced at the others questioningly. They nodded one after another.
Nelson stooped and busied himself putting fresh wood into the stove.
The thief scraped some rubbish together in a corner of the room, and
laid himself down upon it. The boys gathered around the fire and talked
together in low voices for a while. Then they laid themselves down on
the bare floor, and with their ponchos over them went to sleep, Barry
nestling up to Dan with a final good-night growl at the silent form in
the corner.




CHAPTER XIX

TELLS OF A VOYAGE AND A SHIPWRECK


They awoke shortly before seven, aching and chilled and stiff, to find
the sun pouring in through the windows of the hut.

“He’s gone,” said Bob.

“Who?” asked Nelson sleepily.

“Our hobo friend.”

Sure enough, the corner was empty. Nelson felt quickly for the money,
found it intact, and glanced about.

“Well, he hasn’t taken anything.”

“He kept his word, poor chap,” said Dan.

“He did take one thing, though,” said Bob dryly, kicking over the
rubbish at the end of the room.

“What?” they demanded anxiously.

“The bottle.”

They left the hut as soon as the packs were tied up, and retraced their
steps to the railroad track. On every hand were signs of the storm’s
ravages. The sides of the old gravel pit were rutted deeply, and layers
of sand and pebbles overlay the turf. Even the track had suffered in
places, and a quarter of a mile toward Beach Neck they came across a
section gang patching up a washout. By half-past seven they were seated
at a table in the dining room of the little hotel eating like wood
choppers. Through the windows beside them Great Peconic Bay glistened
in the morning sunlight.

“There’s one good thing about missing your supper,” said Tom, his mouth
full of oatmeal, “and that is that it gives you a dandy appetite for
breakfast.”

They did sixteen miles that day over fairly good roads and through an
interesting country. It was a fresh, brisk day with just enough warmth
in the sunshine. They skirted picturesque inlets, and crossed bridges
over tiny coves in which fishing boats and other craft lay hauled up
amid the beach grass. In the late afternoon they reached Sag Harbor,
found a hotel, visited the post office, got their mail, and ate a
hearty supper. Bedtime arrived early that evening, for none of them had
rested very much the night before, and they were pretty sleepy. Bob
managed to write a letter, but the others begged off until morning.

A good ten hours of sleep left them feeling “fine and dandy,” to quote
Dan, and after breakfast and letter writing had been attended to they
set out to see the town. They found plenty to interest them, and if
this were an instructive narrative I should tell you some of the
things they saw. But as it isn’t, I’m going to leave them alone until
dinner time.

After that meal had been disposed of with hearty good will, they packed
their knapsacks again, and set about crossing to the north shore. Tom
was for stopping at Shelter Island, but it was already the sixteenth of
the month, and it behooved them to turn their faces homeward if they
were to report at their schools on time. They learned that the regular
ferry would take them to Greenport or Orient, but those places were too
far east. So they studied the situation with the aid of a map in the
office of the hotel.

“What we want to do,” said Bob, “is to get to Southold or Peconic. That
will save us six or eight miles over Greenport.”

“Well,” suggested Dan, “we’ve got plenty of money now, so let’s get
some one to sail us over. Or what’s the matter with sailing straight
down the bay all the way to this place here; what’s the name of it?
Jamesport?”

“It would take all night,” answered Bob. “It must be a good sixteen
miles, and with this breeze----”

“Don’t you worry about the breeze,” said Nelson. “There’s going to be
more of it pretty soon. But, considering the fact that we’re supposed
to be on a walking trip, Dan, sailing sixteen miles of the way sounds a
bit funny.”

“What was the place you said, Bob?” Tom asked.

“I said Southold or Peconic, Peconic for choice because it’s farther
west. If we’re going to get back to New York on the twentieth as we
agreed, we’ve got to cover ground during the next few days, and every
mile counts. You see we’ve lost three days since we started. We want
to stop back at Barrington to see Jerry, and I think we’d ought to get
there about Tuesday noon. Then Wednesday morning we can go on to Cold
Spring, or wherever that steamboat line starts from, and take the boat
to New York.”

“Sounds good to me,” said Dan. “Let’s ask Whiskers, the clerk, about a
sailboat.”

The gentleman so disrespectfully alluded to by Dan had rather hazy
ideas on the subject of boat hiring, but finally advised them to “take
the straight road down to the Point and ask about.”

Maybe they got off the straight road; at any rate they never found
“the Point.” Instead they came out on the side of a little cove where
a ramshackle boathouse, a thirty-foot sloop at anchor, and a few boats
hauled up on the beach were the principal objects in sight. But as they
drew nearer there came a sound of hammering from the shanty, and when
they reached the door they found it inhabited by a man and a boy. The
man looked like a fisherman, and the boy--well, the boy looked like a
ninny. But, perhaps, that was largely because from the time the Four
darkened the door until they went out he held his mouth open every
moment.

“How do you do?” said Bob. “We want to get across to Peconic this
afternoon. There are four of us and we’ll pay a fair price. Can you
take us over?”

The man looked up momentarily from the lobster pot he was mending and
shook his head.

“No, I guess not,” he replied calmly.

Bob waited, but apparently nothing more was forthcoming.

“It would be worth two dollars to us,” he hazarded.

“’Twould be worth three to me,” answered the man.

“Well, call it three,” said Bob.

“Or maybe four,” continued the other as though Bob had not spoken. Bob
glanced doubtfully at the others, who nodded.

“We’ll pay four, although it seems a good deal.”

“Southold, you said?” asked the fisherman.

“No, Peconic.”

“Oh, Peconic, eh?” He shook his head sorrowfully. “Now, that’s
different bait. You see, the wind’s sorter bad for a trip over to
Peconic.”

“We’ll risk the wind,” answered Nelson.

“Yes, but it’s gettin’ to look pret-ty squally, an’ I don’t b’lieve I’d
want to risk the boat.”

There was a whispered consultation, and finally Bob said: “Now, look
here, we’ve got to get across, and you might as well take us as anyone
else. We’ll pay you five dollars.”

“I couldn’t go myself,” answered the man. “But my boy here can go if he
wants to. Want to take these gentlemen across, Will?”

The boy, his mouth still open, nodded silently.

“All right. You better hurry, ’cause there’s goin’ to be a bit of a
blow toward night. You go along with him an’ he’ll sail you across.”

“Thank you,” answered Bob. “Shall I pay you now?”

“Not till you gets the goods, sir,” was the answer. “When you gets to
Peconic landing you give the money to Will; an’ tell him not to lose
it; though I rather guess he will, just the same.”

They started out, but the fisherman called them back.

“How much were you going to give him?” he asked.

Bob sighed despairingly.

“Five dollars. That was the agreement.”

“Don’t you do it. Give him three; that’s all it’s worth.”

“Oh, I understood you to say----”

“I said three or _maybe_ four. Well, it’s three. That suit you?”

“Yes, indeed. Much obliged.”

“You’re welcome. An’ say!”

“Yes,” answered Bob, pausing again.

“That boy o’ mine’s about the forgetfulest you ever saw. If you
capsize, just remind him to swim, will you? Like as not he wouldn’t
think of it till it was too late.”

Bob agreed laughingly, and the fisherman turned back gravely to his
work. When they got to the little pier, Will was awaiting them in the
rowboat. They piled in and were rowed out to the sloop. Once on board,
Will showed to better advantage. He closed his mouth and looked almost
intelligent, although Nelson confided to Bob that if it came on a blow
he thought the best thing to do would be to pitch Will overboard and
sail themselves. Will cast off the mooring, hoisted the mainsail with
Nelson’s assistance, and they drifted out of the cove. Once around
the point of the land, the breeze filled the sail and they moved
more briskly. Will put up the jib then, and the boys made themselves
comfortable. Dan and Nelson stretched themselves out in the lee of the
sail, and Bob and Tom remained in the little cockpit, the former trying
to engage Will in conversation. But Will was not brilliant at that,
and his replies to the other’s questions consisted invariably of “No,”
“Yes,” and “I guess so.”

There was a fair, if somewhat fluky, breeze out of the south, and after
they had crept through the narrows between the mainland and Shelter
Island it was a matter of short tacking. The sun had gone in under the
light clouds, and Nelson cast frequent glances about them.

“What are you looking for?” asked Dan lazily.

“Squalls,” was the answer. “And we’ll get them before long unless I’m
mistaken.”

“Can’t cut much ice in here, can they?”

“I don’t know, but I should think they might kick up quite a fuss.”

“Oh, well, we’ve got land all around us,” said Dan.

“Yes, that’s the trouble. There isn’t room enough to turn around in
without hitting something. And as for that idiot there at the tiller, I
wouldn’t trust him to drive a canal boat.”

“Oh, let her blow,” said Dan. “Maybe it’ll blow us down to Jamestown.”

“If those clouds over there in the northeast mean anything,” answered
Nelson, “we’re more likely to get blown back toward Beach Neck.”

“Well,” laughed the other, “we don’t have to pay unless he gets us to
Peconic. Think of the saving!”

There was a long spit of sand stretching out from the mainland, and as
the boom swung over and they headed into the dying breeze the boat’s
nose pointed straight for the end of it. Nelson glanced back. Over near
the Shelter Island shore the sea was ruffled with cat’s-paws. Here,
however, the last breath of air seemed to have died out.

“Say, you’d better bring her around to starboard,” he shouted. “That
looks mighty like a squall back there.”

Will looked over his shoulder uneasily and shoved the helm over. At
that moment the first breath of wind from the new quarter struck them,
and the sloop heeled over until Dan had to grab at the mast to keep
from rolling off. The next instant the sheet paid out, and the sloop
righted. Then came a burst of wind that sent Dan and Nelson down to the
cockpit, and took the sloop through the water at a lively clip. They
were free of the sand spit now, and again the helm went over, and the
boat pointed for the channel between the spit and the north shore.

“Maybe we’d better reef some,” said Will questioningly.

“I know blamed well we had,” muttered Nelson, as he climbed out of
the cockpit and set to work. “Lend a hand, Dan!” he called. They took
two reefs in the mainsail, not without difficulty, and crawled back.
It was getting darker now, and there were ugly pale-green streaks on
the water. But with the wind almost astern and the channel dead ahead,
there was no need of present worry. The squall was not a heavy one, and
might soon blow over. If it didn’t they would have difficulty, Nelson
was certain, in getting into Peconic. Presently they were past the end
of the sand spit, and Nelson, for one, breathed easier. The boy at the
helm eased her off a little, and then swung her around into the wind.
At the same instant a terrific gust of wind struck them, the sloop fell
off, the mainsail swung out to starboard, and Nelson made a leap at the
tiller.

“Give me that thing, you idiot!” he muttered. “Let go your jib unless
you want to have us all in the water!”

The boy was plainly rattled and somewhat scared, but he managed to obey.

“Now lower away on that mainsail,” continued Nelson. “I don’t know much
about this old tub, and I’m not going to take any chances. We’ll try
bare poles while this lasts!”

The wind was roaring around them now, and the sloop was heeling over
under the force of it. Dan and Bob lent assistance, and in a trice the
mainsail was down and secured. The sloop found her keel again. “Now put
up that jib again,” said Nelson. “I guess we’d better keep her headed
right, though I’m blest if I know where she’s going!”

“Here comes the rain!” cried Tom, and the next moment they got it.
Ponchos were hurriedly donned, and Barry, shivering and frightened,
crept under the seat. The shores were suddenly blotted from sight in
the whirling gray mists. The sloop scudded along through the leaping
waves at breathless pace. Nelson called to Will.

“Here, you take this tiller,” he said. “You know a heap more about this
bay than I do.”

But the boy only shook his head.

“What?” demanded Nelson angrily.

“I don’t know where we are,” muttered the other.

“Well, do you think I do? You take hold here or we’ll pitch you
overboard.”

Will crept back and took the tiller, his face white with fright.

“Hold her where she is,” said Nelson. “Where was that land the last
time you saw it, Dan?”

“About over there,” answered Dan, pointing.

“That’s what I think. Starboard a little, Will! That’ll do; hold her
so! We’ll keep her into the wind as much as we can. I wonder whether
that old jib is doing us any good. Wish I knew more about sailboats.
If this was a launch, I could manage her. Keep your eyes open, you
fellows. We may strike Brooklyn or Jersey City any old moment.”

The worst of the rain passed, but the wind held on fiercely. Now and
then, or so they thought, they caught glimpses of the land to the
southeast of them, apparently about two miles distant.

“One thing’s certain,” said Nelson presently. “We won’t see Peconic
to-night. We must be two or three miles past that place already. Isn’t
there an island down ahead somewhere?” he asked of Will.

“Yes, sir, Robin’s Island.”

“How far from here, do you think?”

“I don’t know.”

“Well, what do you think? I didn’t suppose you knew.”

“Maybe four or five miles.”

“That’s good,” said Nelson. “Maybe the storm will die out before we get
to it. I’d hate to be arrested for knocking the paint off an island.”

“Very careless of Robin to leave his old island around like this,” said
Dan, in a pathetic attempt to be merry.

“What’s that noise?” asked Tom.

They listened, and,

“Them’s waves!” cried Will. “We’re runnin’ aground!”

“Hard aport!” cried Nelson. Will obeyed, and Nelson seized the jib
sheet. Slowly, prancing and rolling, the sloop’s head came around. The
sound of surf was plainly to be heard.

“It’s that blamed old island!” growled Dan. Nelson nodded, his eyes on
the boat. She began to draw away on her new tack, but it was slow work.
At times the surf sounded almost beside them, at times it became faint
and distant, as the wind lulled or increased. Two or three minutes
passed during which the Four, standing and peering through the rain
with straining eyes, waited the outcome. Then, suddenly, the boat’s
head swirled around, Tom and Dan were thrown into a heap against the
side of the cockpit, and the water streamed in over the washboard.
Barry yelped with terror, and Will joined him.

[Illustration: “Suddenly the boat’s head swirled around.”]

“She’s goin’ over!” he cried. “She’s sinkin’!”

“Cut it out!” thundered Nelson. “Get back there! Take that tiller! What
did you leave it for?”

“I--I forgot!” whined Will.

“Forgot! Great Scott! I’d like to--to-- Hard over now! Port, you idiot,
port!”

But the water was shoaling every instant and, try as he might, Nelson
could not get the boat’s head about. The sound of the pounding surf
increased, and the water about them leaped and dashed. The sloop was
blown, tossing and rolling, on through a maelstrom of angry white
waters.

“Get that jib down, Dan!” called Nelson, and, clutching and swaying,
struggled to the bow. Down came the fluttering, whipping canvas, and,
with a heave, Nelson sent the anchor over. The sloop drifted side on
for a space, and then pointed her nose to the tempest.

“Is it holding?” called Bob.

“No,” answered Nelson. “I didn’t think it would. Get ready to take to
the water if you have to, fellows. We can make the beach all right.
I can see it, now and then, dead ahead there. Maybe, though, we can
manage to stick on here.”

For a minute longer the sloop drifted on, tossed about on the leaping
waves, then there was a jar, her bow swung around, and she listed to
starboard. The waves flattened themselves against her upturned side,
and drenched the occupants.

“She’s aground at the stern,” said Nelson quietly. “I guess we’ll have
to get out of this. And we might as well do it now as later. We can’t
get much wetter. Here, you, get up out of that and swim!”

“I can’t!” whined Will. He was huddled in a corner of the cockpit,
white and trembling.

“Can’t swim!” echoed Dan incredulously. “Well, if that isn’t the limit!”

“Kick that coil of rope over here,” said Nelson, ducking from a wave
that came washing over them. Dan obeyed. Nelson passed the end around
Will, under his arms, and knotted it. “When I tell you to jump, you
jump; understand?”

There was no answer, and Nelson waited for none.

“I’ll race you ashore, Dan,” he cried.

“All right! Coming, Bob? Coming, Tom?”

“You bu-bu-bet!” answered Tom. Bob, who held Barry in his arms, nodded.

“Think Barry can make it, Dan?” he asked.

“I’ll take him,” said Dan. “I hate to leave my coat and shoes behind,
though.”

“We’ll have to,” said Nelson. “Wait! I saw a cod line here somewhere,
didn’t I?”

“Here it is,” answered Tom.

“Good! We’ll make a bundle of the clothes, lash ’em together well, and
maybe we can get ’em ashore.”

So they did it, stumbling and gasping under the assault of the waves
that broke against the boat and dashed across, drenching them from head
to feet. Finally all was ready.

“Here goes,” said Nelson, climbing out of the cockpit and balancing
himself for an instant on the sloping, heaving deck. Then he leaped
far out into the water. Dan was after him in the instant. Bob threw
the bundle of clothes out, for the other end of the line was fastened
around Nelson’s waist. Then Tom followed. Bob caught a glimpse of
Barry’s wet head and frightened eyes as Dan arose to the surface and
struck out for the shore. Bob knotted about him the rope to which Will
was lashed, and turned to the boy.

“When I call for you to jump, you jump,” he said. “You needn’t be
afraid; we’ll haul you in all right.”

Will looked at him silently with wide, terror-stricken eyes, and
made no answer. Twenty yards away three dark objects appeared and
disappeared in the green-and-white ferment. Bob climbed to the rail and
leaped. The waves tried their best to smother him when he came up to
the surface, but he fought for breath, and the rest was not difficult.
Wind and tide set strongly toward the land, and he could not have
helped going there had he tried. It seemed scarcely a minute before he
felt the beach under him, and was tossed, gasping and struggling in a
white smother, into the arms of Dan, who had waded out toward him. He
climbed to his feet, and unknotted the rope.

“Now, all together,” he said. “Jump!”

The boat was an indistinct blur, some two hundred yards out, and as
they shouted they strained their eyes for sight of the fisherman’s
boy. But they couldn’t see surely, and after an instant they pulled
vigorously on the rope. It came fast.

“He must be swimming,” said Tom.

“Swimming!” answered Nelson in angry disgust. “The fool has untied the
line!”




CHAPTER XX

FOLLOWS WITH A RESCUE, AND INTRODUCES FRIENDS IN NEED


“If he has,” said Bob quietly, “he’ll probably drown out there before
night.”

They pulled the empty line in silently. Barry, wet and woe-begone,
huddled himself against the storm, and watched out of reach of the
waves.

“I wonder if there’s a boat around here,” said Nelson.

They turned and looked about them. They seemed to be on the end of the
island, for beyond them at a little distance the waves raced by a sandy
point. To their right, as they faced inland, a beach stretched away
until lost in the blur of the beating rain. In front of them was beach
grass, flattened under the wind, and beyond, on higher ground, a few
stunted cedars and underbrush.

“We’ll have to find one,” said Nelson. “Two of us had better stay here,
and two go and hunt. Who’ll stay?”

“I will, if you say so,” answered Tom.

“All right, Tom and I’ll stay,” said Nelson. “You and Dan see what you
can find. Maybe there’s a path or a road up there; looks as though
there might be. You’d better put your coats on.”

“Can’t get any wetter,” answered Dan, shivering. They untied the
bundle, which had come safely ashore, and pulled their dripping coats
on. Then, with Barry beside them, they started off, and in a minute
were out of sight.

It was weary waiting there on the beach with the rain pelting them, and
the wind chilling them through and through.

“If we only had a fire,” chattered Tom.

Every now and then they faced the wind, and tried to make the boy in
the sloop hear them. But it is doubtful if he did, for their words
seemed to be blown back into their faces. Nelson looked at his watch.
The soaking had not affected it, and it proclaimed the time to be
twenty minutes past four.

“It’ll be dark before very long,” he said, “if this storm keeps up.”

“What time did we start?” asked Tom.

“I didn’t notice, but I guess it was about a quarter to three.”

A half hour passed, and another had almost gone, when a faint hail
reached them. It seemed at first to come from the sloop, and they put
their hands before their mouths and answered as loudly as they could.
Then it came again, and unmistakably from behind them. They looked, and
presently, like gray wraiths, figures appeared against the sky line.

“They’ve got one!” cried Tom.

Toward them came two persons and a horse drawing a dory.

“Here’s your boat!” called Bob. “And, say, this isn’t an island at all;
it’s some old point! This gentleman lives about half a mile down the
road, and he’s going to help us.”

The second person proved to be a big chap of twenty-eight or thirty in
yellow oilskins.

“How are you, boys?” he said. “Where does she lie?”

They pointed out the location of the sloop.

“Struck on the bar,” said the man. “Well, we’ll have your friend safe
in no time. Get up there, Prince!”

The horse moved down to the water, and was unhitched.

“But where’s Dan?” asked Tom.

“He had a beast of a chill, and I made him stay behind at the fire,”
answered Bob. “But he said he was coming along in a minute. We had an
awful time finding anybody. Got off the road, and pretty near wandered
back into the bay on the other side over there. This chap’s all right.
He was out harnessing that plug of his before we were through telling
him.”

“Which of you fellows can row?” asked the stranger.

“All of us,” answered Tom.

“Well, I’ve only got two pairs of oars, so I guess one will be enough.”
He turned to Bob. “Want to come?”

“Sure,” said Bob, “unless--” He looked at Nelson.

“No, go ahead, old chap,” Nelson answered. “You did the hard work, and
ought to have the glory. I’ll stay here and look after Tommy.”

So Bob scrambled into the dory, and the stranger pushed off. They had
launched at a point some little distance up the beach, and presently,
when they had struggled through the breakers, they turned the boat’s
nose out to sea, and worked along toward the bar. It was wet work, but
not dangerous, for with careful management a dory will lift itself
over the worst sea that ever ran. When they approached the sloop the
stranger hailed, but there was no answer.

“You don’t suppose he jumped and lost the rope, do you?” he shouted to
Bob.

“Don’t believe so,” was the reply. “He’s probably too scared to answer.”

They worked the dory around to the lee of the sloop, and found that
Bob’s theory was the correct one. Will lay in the cockpit, very scared
and very, very seasick. He opened his eyes when they called to him,
but evidently he was incapable of making any further effort. The
stranger dropped his oars, waited his chance, and then leaped to the
slippery deck. Bob held the dory as near as he could. The stranger
picked up the boy and shoved the limp body over the side.

“Bring her up till she bumps,” he said.

Bob obeyed, and Will slid into the dory to lie supinely against the
seat with the water washing about his legs. The owner of the dory
tumbled in after him, saved himself from going out the other side, and
seized his oars.

“All right!” he cried. “Push her off! We’ll go back the way we came.
I’m afraid we might get carried by the point if we tried it here.”

By the time they were in the breakers again Dan had joined Tom and
Nelson, and all three waded out, and dragged the boat up. Will was
lifted out and borne up the beach.

“We’ll have to carry him, I guess,” said Dan.

“Put him right back in the dory when we get it on the road,” said the
stranger. “It’ll be rough, but he’s had it rougher already and won’t
mind, I guess.”

So, presently, with Will lying at full length in the bottom of the
dory, and the others trudging beside, the procession started inland.
Fifteen minutes of battle against the elements brought them to a neat
and cosy little red cottage standing in a grove of cedars a short
distance from the beach. Lights gleamed from the windows, and Tom and
Nelson cheered feebly.

There was a roaring fire in the open fireplace of the little living
room into which they were ushered, and the mellow glow of a big lamp
added to the comfort of the scene. Nelson backed up to the flames,
stretched himself, and grinned like the Cheshire cat.

“This is simply great!” he said with a sigh.

The host brought a little bright-faced woman and introduced her as
Mrs. Cozzens, and Bob introduced Nelson and Dan and Tom with ludicrous
formality considering the fact that they were all dripping wet.

“You’ll want to get your things off and dry yourselves,” said Mrs.
Cozzens. “So you go right upstairs to the guest room, and Mr. Cozzens
will look after you.”

Will, who had been propped up in a big armchair before the fire, began
to show signs of returning animation. He lifted his head and looked
about the room.

“Hello,” said Nelson. “Feeling better?”

“I guess so,” was the faint answer.

“He’d better go right to bed,” said the woman. “You carry him up, John.”

Nelson assisted, and Will was put to bed. Their host returned presently
with something hot in a cup and made Will sip it. After that, in spite
of the fact the others were changing their wet garments for all the
clothes, old and new, that Mr. Cozzens could find and making a lot of
noise about it, Will went sound asleep on his cot. When the Four were
finally ready to return to the living room they were a strange-looking
quartette. Mr. Cozzens’s garments were much too large for even Bob, and
sleeves and legs had to be turned up generously. Tom was a striking
figure in a pair of old white tennis trousers and a red sweater, while
Bob in a brown canvas shooting jacket, Dan in a pair of duck trousers
and a Tuxedo coat, and Nelson in a suit of blue serge that could have
gone around him twice were not far behind in point of picturesqueness.
They went downstairs laughing merrily to find Mr. Cozzens with a tray
containing cups of steaming coffee in his hands.

“I was just going to take this up to you, boys. Here, sit down by the
fire and put this down. It’ll do you good. There’s cream in it, and the
sugar’s in the bowl. Hello! No spoons? Jennie, what did you think they
were going to stir with? Their fingers?”

Mrs. Cozzens hurried laughingly in with the teaspoons, and the boys
made short work of the coffee.

“Supper’ll be ready in a little while,” said their host. “Did you
spread your things out around the stove upstairs?”

“Yes, sir. They’ll be dry before very long, I guess,” Dan answered.

“I think we’d ought to get on,” said Bob half-heartedly.

“Get on? Not while this storm lasts,” replied Mr. Cozzens. “Why, you’d
like as not walk into the bay! It’s as black as pitch outdoors. And
that reminds me I ought to be out in the stable this minute.”

“Let me help, sir?” said Nelson, jumping up. Mr. Cozzens pressed him
gently but firmly back into his chair.

“You sit right there, my boy, until supper’s ready. After supper we’ll
talk about your going on. Meanwhile you’ll find books and papers around
if you look, and if you smoke----?”

“No, sir,” answered Bob. “We’ll do finely, sir.”

“Don’t smoke, eh? Well, you’re sensible. Do without it as long as you
can. When you can’t, smoke a pipe and leave cigarettes alone. That’s my
advice, and ’tain’t so many years since I was a boy myself.”

He went out, and the Four, left to their own devices, talked until
the crackling wood fire made its influence felt and lulled them to
drowsy silence. Barry, stretched as near the flames as safety allowed,
actually snored. And then, just when they were on the point of falling
asleep, Mr. Cozzens returned with a cheerful slamming of doors and
stamping of feet, and looked in on them on his way upstairs.

“All right, eh?” he asked. “Supper’s almost ready.”

Nelson smiled half-sleepily, watched the door close, and then picked a
book at random from the table beside him. It didn’t promise to be very
interesting, for it was a volume on Montaigne, and Nelson had small
affection for that gentleman. As he returned the book to its place an
inscription on the fly leaf met his eyes.

“H. Dana Cozzens, St. Alfred’s School,” he read.

Then their host, since he was a bit too old to be a student, must be an
instructor. Nelson wondered where St. Alfred’s was, doubtful of ever
having heard of it before. His conjectures were interrupted by the
summons to supper.

The meal was a simple one, but everything was nicely cooked, and there
was plenty of it. The Four ate until Bob, as spokesman, felt driven to
apologies.

“We don’t always eat like this, Mrs. Cozzens,” he assured the hostess.
“At least, none of us except Tom. I haven’t any excuse to offer for
him; he’s beyond them.”

They told their afternoon’s adventure, and asked what Mr. Cozzens
thought about the sloop.

“Well, it’s moderated a whole lot,” was the answer, “and if she hasn’t
broken up any by this time, she won’t. She’ll probably have some of her
planks sprung, but I don’t think she’ll be much worse for her accident.
Now, you boys had better stay right here until morning. There’s no
occasion to turn out in this storm and get all soaked up again. We
can put you up without any trouble if you don’t mind being a little
crowded.”

They didn’t mind it at all, only----

“Call it settled then,” interrupted Mr. Cozzens. “We’ve got plenty of
cots even if our space is limited. We don’t often entertain a whole
ship’s crew, you see. In fact, we’re pretty well out of the way out
here on the point, and our friends, all except a few, leave us alone.
That’s one reason I built here,” laughed the host. “When summer comes
I want a real vacation, and that to me means rest and ease and old
clothes.”

“I should think it would be fine here,” said Bob.

“It is; I’m sorry you haven’t seen it in good weather. The next time
you’re over this way you must come and see us. Any time from the first
of July to the twentieth of September you’ll find us at home. Well,
shall we adjourn to the other room and let the lady of the house clear
the table?”

Back in the living room Mr. Cozzens picked a pipe from a tray, and
began filling it from a big jar of tobacco.

“It was something of an accident that you boys found me at home
to-day,” he said thoughtfully. “I’m glad you did, for there isn’t
another cottage for nearly a mile. I was going up to New York this
morning on business, but when I reached the village I found so much
mail to be answered that I postponed the trip.” He paused and smiled.
“I was going to look for a boy, and now Fate has presented me with
five.”

“How’d I do, sir?” asked Tom promptly.

“I’m afraid you wouldn’t like the job,” laughed Mr. Cozzens. “I’d like
to have you, but----”

“Take me, Mr. Cozzens,” interrupted Dan. “I don’t know what the work
is, but I’ll bet I can do it.”

“All right,” answered their host with a twinkle in his eye. “The wages
are one dollar a week, and you get your board. In return for that
munificent salary I expect you to get up at six-thirty, attend to the
furnace, look after the horse, run errands, shovel snow, wash windows
now and then, and, in short, make yourself as useful as you know how.
Appeal to you, does it?”

“Well, I never washed a window yet,” answered Dan, “but I guess I could
do it. Anyhow, I wouldn’t have to go back to school.”

“Eh? But you’d be at school,” replied Mr. Cozzens.

“How is that, sir?”

“That’s where I want the boy; at my school in Oak Park, St. Alfred’s.”

“Oh!” said Dan blankly, amid the laughter of the others. “That would be
out of the frying pan into the fire, I guess.”

“Out of St. Eustace into St. Alfred’s,” supplemented Bob.

“Do you go to St. Eustace?” asked Mr. Cozzens.

“Yes, sir.”

“And the rest of you?”

“No, the others don’t amount to much, sir. Nelson and Tom go to
Hillton, and Bob there is in the high school at Portland.”

“I see. I have an instructor with me who graduated from Hillton; Mr.
Hopkinson; ever hear of him? He was a good deal before your time,
though, I guess.”

“Where is Oak Park, sir?” asked Tom.

“It’s near the north shore about midway between Hempstead and Cold
Spring Harbor. A very attractive place, Oak Park.”

“And you’re the Principal, sir?”

“Yes, or Head Master, as we call it. The school isn’t a large one. We
had thirty-two boys last year. But it’s been in existence only four
years.”

“And--and the boy you hire, sir?” continued Tom with rising excitement,
“cu-cu-cu-could he do any studying?”

“Why, yes, I should want him to. Are you thinking of applying?” asked
Mr. Cozzens with a smile.

“No, sir, bu-bu-bu-but I--I--” He stopped and looked at Nelson and Bob
and Dan, who, suddenly guessing what Tom was thinking of, all tried to
speak at once.

“Jerry!” cried Dan.

“Just the thing!” cried Nelson.

“We know the very fellow you want, sir!” added Bob.

“Well, this is interesting,” said Mr. Cozzens. “Who is he?”

“You tell him, Bob,” said Nelson. “Tom’s excited, and it would take him
all night.”

So Bob told about their meeting with Jerry Hinkley in the barn near
Bakerville, of their plans for his education, and of their subsequent
encounter at the circus. It was rather a long story, and Mr. Cozzens
frequently interrupted the narration with his questions, but when it
was finished their host was clearly impressed.

“If you can get hold of that boy,” he said, “you do it. Send him right
to me at Oak Park. I shall be there in three days. I can’t make any
promises, but if he turns out what I expect from your description he
will suit me nicely. And if he’s really eager to learn, and has an
ordinary amount of pluck, he ought to be able to do very well at St.
Alfred’s. He will be pretty busy, for there’s plenty to do, but he
will have time to attend all classes, and to study some outside. In
fact, it ought to be the very place for him. He’s sixteen, you say, but
backward? He’d probably have to start with the younger boys, but if he
showed willingness I’d do all I could to put him along. Whether at the
end of the year he would be able to pass the examinations for Hillton,
I can’t say. It will depend a great deal on himself. But I should think
that, with some help during the summer, as you had planned, he ought
to be able to pass. You will see him, you say, at Barrington?”

“Yes, sir; at least, we hope to,” answered Bob. “He said when we left
him that he expected to be there about the twentieth. I hope we will
find him! When does your school begin, sir?”

“On the twenty-third, but I should like to have him there as soon after
the twentieth as possible. Supposing you let me hear from you after you
get to Barrington? Let me know whether to expect him, for if you don’t
run across him I’ll have to look for some one else.”

“All right, sir, we’ll telegraph you at Oak Park as soon as we get to
Barrington. I hope he’ll suit, sir, for Jerry is a fine chap, and we
all want him to get on. You see, we--we’ve adopted him in a sort of
way, sir!”

“I see you have,” laughed Mr. Cozzens. “And very good of you it is,” he
added seriously. “I hope your plans for him will turn out splendidly,
and if he comes to me you may trust me to do all I can for him.”

“Yes, sir, we do,” answered Tom earnestly.

“Well, I guess I’d better go up and have a look at the invalid,” said
Mr. Cozzens. “Don’t hurry off,” he added as the others rose. “It isn’t
late; sit up just as long as you want to.”

“I guess we’re all about ready for bed,” said Bob. “I know I am.”

So they followed their host upstairs. Will was sleeping as soundly as
though he had not been at it four hours already. Mr. Cozzens said good
night, and the Four prepared for bed. But, in spite of their proclaimed
sleepiness, they were too highly elated and excited over Jerry’s
prospects to drop off immediately, and it was all of an hour later when
they finished discussing them. Tom had a way of getting in the last
word, and to-night was no exception.

“Isn’t it funny how things happen?” said Nelson. “Who’d have thought
when we got shipwrecked out there on the point that it was going to
turn out like this?”

“That’s so,” Dan replied sleepily. “Talk about luck!”

There was silence for a minute. Then Tom’s voice came solemnly across
the dark from his cot in the comer.

“It isn’t altogether luck,” he said. “I guess God had a good deal to do
with it.”




CHAPTER XXI

WHEREIN TOM LOSES HIS TOOTHBRUSH AND DAN TELLS A STORY


The next day, which was Saturday, the seventeenth, dawned clear and
cold. It was the first touch of real autumn weather they had had,
and when they hurried downstairs the fire in the living room, which
had been freshly built, felt very good. Will came down with them. He
declared himself “all right,” but he was so uncommunicative and so ill
at ease that it was difficult to find out much about him. Mr. Cozzens
tried his best to draw him out at breakfast, but his embarrassment was
so painful that it seemed kindness to let him alone. After breakfast
they went out to the point to look after the sloop, taking the dory
with them. The wind was in the north, and bit fingers and noses as it
swept across the blue, white-capped bay. They found the sloop where
they had left her. The tide was high, and a good sea was still running,
but things looked vastly different from what they had the afternoon
before. This morning it was hard to believe that there were such things
as storms.

Mr. Cozzens and Nelson set out in the dory. They found the sloop
two-thirds full of water, and set about pumping her out. Will had told
them that they would find a pump in the locker, and they soon had it at
work. After they had the water pretty well out they found that several
of the planks had sprung, and Mr. Cozzens advised hauling her out on
the beach and having her repaired. So they pulled the anchor in, and
Nelson rowed back to the beach for Dan and Bob. The latter and Mr.
Cozzens took a line from the sloop’s bow and fixed it to the stern of
the dory. Then they got into the latter, and tried to pull the sloop
off the sand bar, while Dan and Nelson stood in the stern in order to
raise the forward part. It was hard work, but at the end of twenty
minutes the sloop was afloat again, and half an hour later she was
lying on her side well out of water, thanks to the efforts of Prince
and all hands. There they left her, after securing her with a couple
of cables, and it was decided that Will should return home by train to
Greenport and ferry to Sag Harbor. They paid him five dollars, since,
as Dan pointed out, they had really benefited by the misadventure, and
Will, with muttered thanks and farewell, disappeared in the direction
of the station.

A little while later the Four, too, took their departure, thanking Mr.
and Mrs. Cozzens heartily for their kindness, and promising to come
again to the red cottage if ever they had the opportunity. Mr. Cozzens
walked with them as far as the neck, and pointed out their road to them.

“Good-by, boys,” he said. “I’m glad I had the pleasure of meeting you,
and I hope it won’t be the last time. Come and see my school some time.
Meanwhile, let me hear from you about your friend as soon as you can.
Good-by and good luck!”

The nip in the air was conducive to brisk traveling, and when, at noon,
they reached Jamesport they had eight miles to their credit. In the
afternoon they did still better, and reached Fairhaven, twelve miles
distant, tired and hungry and happy, at half-past six. They found
letters awaiting them at the post office in the morning. Mr. Speede
wrote that, since Dan was really in earnest, he would be glad to do
anything in reason for Jerry, “even to the extent,” he wrote, “of
becoming custodian and administrator of the FUND!” Tom’s father and
Nelson’s also professed themselves eager to help, and Jerry’s life for
the next two or three years seemed to be nicely arranged. If only they
could find Jerry!

The day was Sunday and, although warmer than yesterday, was still
pretty cold. In spite of the fact that by waiting for the post office
to open they had delayed their departure until after nine o’clock, they
had resolved to make the day’s journey a record one.

“We haven’t done a real day’s work yet,” declared Bob. “We’ve just been
loafing along. If we can make Kingston to-night that’ll leave us only
about half a day’s tramp to Barrington, and we can get there to-morrow
noon. Then we can find Jerry, spend the night there, and go to the
steamer landing Tuesday morning.”

“How far is Kingston from here?” asked Dan.

“Not over twenty miles.”

“We can do it, then.”

“Of course we can,” agreed Nelson. “We’re in good shape now.”

“Yes,” answered Dan. “Even Tommy’s shape is better, I think. I’ll bet
he’s walked off ten pounds.”

“No, I don’t believe so, Dan,” said Bob. “You see, as soon as Tommy
loses any flesh, he gets busy at the table, and puts it right back.”

“Well, come ahead,” said Dan. “Let’s get at it. Where’s that dog got
to? You Barry! Where are you, you rascal? Oh, found another bone, have
you? My, you’re getting more and more like Tommy every day; eating all
the time!”

“Hope you choke,” said Tom in a good-natured growl.

That day’s march was barren of incidents worthy of mention, unless
the incident of Tom’s knapsack is worth speaking about. It was after
dinner, and they had done some fourteen of the possible twenty miles
when there was a cry of disgust from Tom.

“What’s the matter?” asked Dan, turning.

“Mu-mu-mu-matter!” answered Tom. “Mu-mu-matter enough! Lu-lu-lu-look at
mu-mu-my knapsack!”

“What have you done to it?” asked Nelson in amazement. “It--it’s empty!”

“No wonder,” said Bob with a smile; “it’s all untied.”

“That’s no way to fix a knapsack,” said Dan soberly. “What have you
done with your things?”

“Du-du-du-done with them!” sputtered Tom. “Wh-wh-wh-what do you
su-su-suppose I’ve du-du-du-done with them? Eaten th-th-th-them?”

“Well, we know your appetite, Tommy,” said Nelson gently.

“Th-th-they’re su-su-scattered fu-fu-from here to the hotel!
Wh-wh-wh-what’ll I du-du-do?”

By this time the others were laughing at the tops of their lungs, and
it was several moments before any suggestions came. Tom stared from one
to another of them in mingled reproach and indignation. Finally,

“Sit down and wait for them to catch up with you,” Dan suggested.

“Send Barry back for them,” said Bob.

“Whistle,” said Nelson.

But presently they agreed that it was hard luck, and finally calmed
Tom’s despair.

“I’ll go back with you a ways,” Nelson volunteered, “and the others can
go on if they want to.”

“We’ll wait awhile,” said Bob, “and then if you don’t show up we’ll
walk ahead slowly, and give you a chance to catch up with us.”

Luckily they found most of the missing articles within a mile and a
half. Tom’s toothbrush and a pair of stockings, however, were not to be
seen.

“Let ’em go,” said Tom. “I’ll get a brush at Kingston or Barrington;
and it doesn’t matter about the socks because I’ve got plenty more in
my trunk. Help me tie this old thing up right, will you?”

The knapsack rearranged, they started back.

They caught up with Bob and Dan two or three miles outside of Kingston,
and reached that town just at dusk. Nelson and Tom were inclined to
be stuck-up over the fact that they had done three miles more than
the others and therefore held the record. But Dan maintained that it
didn’t count when you went over the same ground twice. Of course they
went to the hotel in which they had put up on the occasion of their
previous visit and where Barry had distinguished himself, and of course
they received a warm welcome. Barry was in real danger of death from
overeating, so attentive was the proprietor. After dinner they told the
latter of their further adventures with the thief, and it was plain to
be seen that he didn’t approve of their clemency, although he didn’t
say so. When bedtime came Dan and Nelson went into the room occupied by
Bob and Tom, and stretched themselves out on the bed while the others
undressed. After Bob had brushed his teeth he carried his toothbrush
over to the bed in a stealthy manner, and placed it under his pillow.

“What the dickens is that for?” asked Dan.

“S-sh!” whispered Bob, finger on lips. “You know Tommy lost his.”

“Huh!” answered Tom amid the laughter. “You needn’t think I’d use
yours!”

“That reminds me,” said Dan, with a giggle. “Did you ever hear about
the Englishmen on the steamer?”

“Help!” cried Nelson. “Help! Dan’s going to tell a joke.”

“Never mind,” said Bob soothingly; “humor him; laugh if you possibly
can.”

“All right; you say when, Bob.”

“Shut up,” said Dan, “and let me tell you. It’s funny. I read it
in--in--_Punch_, I think it was.”

“_Punch!_” howled Nelson. “Good night, you fellows; I really must be
going.”

But Dan pulled him back to the bed.

“You stay here,” he said. “This joke’s all right if it did come from
_Punch_.”

“Let him tell it and get it over with,” advised Tom, between splashes
at the washstand.

“Well, there was an Englishman,” began Dan. “No, there were two
Englishmen.”

“Make it three, old man,” advised Nelson. “There’s luck in odd numbers.”

“Shut up, you! They were on a steamer, and had the same stateroom.”

“Which had the lower berth?” inquired Tom.

“And they were strangers to each other,” continued the narrator. “Well,
one of the Englishmen went down----”

“Which one was it?” asked Bob.

“Went down to his cabin and found the other chap----”

“I know!” cried Tom.

“Well, what is it?” asked Dan indignantly.

“He went down and found the other chap had stolen the berths!”

“Oh, you go to thunder! He found the other chap using his toothbrush.”

“Now!” cried Bob, and he and Nelson proceeded to go into spasms of
laughter.

“Best thing _Punch_ ever printed!” gurgled Bob.

“Frightfully funny!” moaned Nelson. “Oh! Oh! I shall die!”

“Imagine--imagine how the--toothbrush felt, Nel!” shrieked Bob.

“Say, will you shut up?” said Dan, pummeling Nelson. “That isn’t all of
it. Wait till I tell you. The first Englishman----”

Loud groans interrupted him.

“It isn’t all, Bob,” said Nelson sorrowfully. Bob shook his head.

“Bear up, Nel! Who knows? Maybe he’s forgotten the rest.”

“I know!” interrupted Tom again.

“Know what?” asked Dan.

“The rest of it. The toothbrush was loaded!”

“Loaded, you idiot! How do you mean?”

“Had--had powder in it and----”

“Oh, you fellows make me tired,” said Dan good-naturedly, rolling off
the bed. “Come on, Nel.”

Nelson allowed himself to be pulled to the floor, and then found his
feet.

“All right, Dan,” he said. “Let’s go. They have no sense of humor here.
They’re a stupid lot, anyway. Barry’s the only one who has any sense.”

“Hold on!” cried Tom, as the door was closing. “I want to know which of
the two had the lower berth.”

“Find out,” replied Dan disgustedly.

Later, when the lights were out, and Dan and Nelson had composed
themselves for slumber, the latter broke the silence.

“Say, Dan!”

“Yep.”

“What was the rest of that story?”

“Will you shut up and let me tell it?” asked Dan suspiciously.

“Honor bright! Go ahead!”

“Well, you see, the first Englishman came down and found the other
Englishman using his toothbrush, and----”

“Meaning the toothbrush belonging to the first Englishman?”

“No--yes!” answered Dan. “Of course the first Englishman’s toothbrush,
you idiot. I said that, didn’t I?”

There was no answer, and he went on.

“‘I say, my dear fellow,’ said the first Englishman, ‘that’s my
toothbrush you have there!’ ‘Really?’ said the second Englishman. ‘I
beg your pawdon, old chap! I thought it belonged to the ship’!”

Dan chuckled in the darkness, and waited for Nelson’s laughter.

“I think that’s pretty good, don’t you?” he asked presently.

There was no answer. Nelson was snoring placidly. Dan rolled over and
thumped his pillow.

“Idiot!” he muttered.




CHAPTER XXII

WHEREIN GOOD-BYS ARE SAID, AND BARRY MAKES HIS CHOICE


“Well, we’re pretty near home,” said Bob at the breakfast table the
next morning. “To-morrow afternoon we ought to be in New York.”

“Then it’s back to school!” sighed Tom.

“I’m ready,” said Nelson. “School’s all right, Tommy. I’m going to have
a good time this year. A fellow always does his last year.”

“Wish it was my last,” said Tom. “You fellows’ll be sophomores at
Erskine when I get there, and I’ll be a freshie and you won’t have
anything to do with me!”

“Oh, if you behave yourself, Tommy, we’ll speak to you now and then as
we pass,” said Dan. “We’re not the kind to go back on an old friend.”

“You could make up a year if you tried,” said Nelson. “If you had some
coaching next summer you could pass the college exams all right.”

“He and Jerry might be coached together,” suggested Bob.

“Well, I’m going to try,” answered Tom forlornly, “but I don’t believe
I’ll be able to make it. If it wasn’t for Latin----”

He shook his head dejectedly.

“Cheer up, Tommy,” said Dan. “_In hoc signo vinces_, old chap! Never
forget that. That means ‘While there’s life there’s hope.’”

“And _E pluribus unum_ means one out of many,” rejoined Tom sadly. “And
the one’s me.”

When they had stopped laughing, Bob said:

“I think we’ve had a pretty good time this trip, taking it all in all,
don’t you?”

“Dandy,” answered Nelson. “We always do when we get together. Look at
the fun we had last summer at Chicora! I think we ought to do something
else together next summer. What do you say?”

He looked eagerly around at the others.

“Sure!” cried Dan. “Let’s get together, the four of us, every summer
until--until we don’t want to!”

“Good scheme,” said Bob. “Let’s decide on something for next year.”

“That’s not so easy,” answered Nelson. “But we can think it over and
write to each other in the spring, and--”

“What I’d like to do,” interrupted Dan, “would be to go on a cruise
somewhere.”

“Sail, do you mean?” asked Tom anxiously.

“Sail or row or paddle or any old way,” answered Dan. “Pass me the
toast, Nel, if you don’t want it all.”

“Catch,” answered Nelson. “Look here, how would a cruise in a launch
do?”

“Swell!” said Tom.

“Just the ticket!” agreed Dan.

“Well, I think I could get our launch; I guess dad would let us have it
for a month or so; and we could have a bully time.”

“That would be all right,” said Bob. “Or if we couldn’t do that we
might get some horses, and take a riding trip. I knew a fellow who----”

“That’s too much like walking,” interrupted Dan. “What’s the matter
with an automobile?”

“Where are you going to get it?” asked Bob sarcastically.

“Oh, borrow it. Tom’s father has a machine, hasn’t he, Tom?”

“Yes, but he isn’t fool enough to lend it to us!”

“That’s because he doesn’t know us,” answered Dan, unruffled. “I can
run an auto to beat the band.”

“Not with me inside, you can’t,” said Nelson decidedly.

“Well, we’ll think it all over,” said Bob. “There’s lots of time. What
we’ve got to do now is to hit the trail for Barrington and Mr. Jerry
Hinkley. Aren’t you most through, Tommy?”

Tommy declared, with his mouth full, that he was quite through, and a
few minutes later they were once more on their way, with the journey’s
end well in sight.

“It’s certainly done you good, Dan,” said Nelson presently, as they
were crossing the river. “I guess that doctor of yours knew what he was
talking about. I’ll bet you’ve put on ten or fifteen pounds since we
started.”

“I guess I have gained a bit,” answered Dan. “Anyhow, I surely feel
fine and dandy. But I’m sorry it is all over; I’d like to turn around
and do it all over again, wouldn’t you?”

“Yes, if it wasn’t for school,” replied Nelson. “Say, I’ll see you at
the football game, won’t I? And you promised to come up over Sunday
some time.”

“I’m going to. Only I mustn’t let the fellows know it or they’ll throw
me out. Personally, Nel, I can stand the disgrace, but----”

“Oh, dry up! We’re going to beat you at football this fall. Hillton’s
going to have the finest team that ever----”

“Was beaten by St. Eustace,” laughed Dan.

Whereupon the argument waxed warm, and for a mile or more they talked
football with all the enthusiasm customary when two live, manly,
American boys get together in the autumn weather.

They had covered about half the distance to Barrington when the rattle
and rumble of a heavy farm wagon coming along behind warned them to the
side of the road. As they got out of the way Nelson glanced carelessly
around. Then he gave a shout that attracted the attention of Bob and
Tom, who were some fifty yards ahead, and brought them scurrying back.
The farm wagon came to a halt, and in the next instant Nelson and Dan
were clambering up and shaking hands with Jerry Hinkley.

Jerry was back in his farm clothes, but for all of that he presented
a different appearance to-day than on the occasion of their first
meeting. Perhaps his clothes were a little neater and cleaner; surely
his hair no longer looked like an overgrown mop, but was well cut and
smoothly brushed. There was no doubt that Jerry was a very good-looking
boy. But I think the principal change lay in his expression. To-day he
looked smilingly confident, self-assured, as though knowledge of his
capabilities had found him at last, and he was eager to prove them.
Much of his former diffidence, however, remained, and he shook hands
with the Four, and answered their delighted greetings with smiling
embarrassment. Then they were all climbing into the wagon, Jerry’s way
being theirs.

“Say, just look at Barry, will you,” said Bob. “He’s making friends
with the horses.”

And sure enough the terrier was leaping at the noses of the two
big sorrels and whining delightedly. And the horses evidently
reciprocating the sudden affection, were bobbing their heads down to
him as he leaped about. Dan called to him and lifted him into the
wagon, where he scurried industriously about, sniffing and sneezing and
pawing at the litter of dusty straw and chaff.

“Where are you going?” asked Jerry as he chirped to the horses.

“We were going to see you,” answered Nelson. “Isn’t it odd we should
have found you like this? Where have you been?”

“Just down the road a piece. I was delivering a load of grain for Mr.
Osgood.”

“Does he live near here?” asked Tom.

“About a mile beyond,” answered Jerry. “I’d like for you to stop and
see him. I--I been telling him about you.”

“Of course we’ll stop,” said Nelson. “Besides--” He paused and looked
inquiringly at the others. They nodded.

“Go ahead,” said Bob.

“Fire away,” added Dan.

“Besides,” Nelson resumed, “we’ve got something to tell you. I guess we
might as well tell it now.”

So, clinging to the seat to keep from being shaken off, he told Jerry
of the arrangements they had made for his future, and finally of Mr.
Cozzens’s offer of a situation at St. Alfred’s. And when it was all
over, and Tom and Bob and Dan had each added eager and unnecessary
explanations, Jerry still sat silent, his eyes fixed on the ears of the
off horse. They waited a moment. Then,

“Look here, Jerry, it’s all right, isn’t it?” asked Dan anxiously.
Jerry nodded.

“Good,” breathed Dan relievedly. “I was afraid you--er----”

“I ain’t said nothing--I mean anything--because I don’t know what _to_
say,” Jerry finally remarked, with a quick, embarrassed glance at
Nelson. “I--I----”

He faltered and stopped.

“Don’t say a word,” returned Nelson. “It’s all right.”

“But I want you all to know that--that I’m very much obliged. It--it’s
more than that, only I can’t just say it. I--I don’t know why you
fellows have been so good to me.”

Bob laughed uneasily.

“You’re such a good fellow, Jerry, we wanted to help you,” he said. “We
haven’t done anything much, though; the hardest part is left for you,
old chap. But I think you’re going to make good, Jerry; we all think
that; so don’t you disappoint us.”

“I won’t!” answered Jerry almost savagely. “I’m going to make you
fellows glad you did it, see if I don’t!”

Nelson clapped him on the shoulder.

“That’s the way to talk, Jerry! And if you can get that place at St.
Alfred’s it’ll make a lot of difference. Why, you can learn any amount
there this winter, and have your board and room besides. Mr. Cozzens
said it wouldn’t be awfully easy, you know, plenty of work and all
that; but you’ll have time for lessons and study, all right.”

“I don’t care how hard the work is,” answered Jerry. “I can do it.
Only----”

“Only what?” asked Bob as he hesitated.

“Only I don’t know as I ought to go. You see, I engaged with Mr. Osgood
for all winter.”

“Oh, he will let you off,” said Nelson. “We’ll see him and tell him
just how it is. That’ll be all right, Jerry.”

“I hope so,” said Jerry. “There’s the farm now; that’s his house, the
white one yonder.”

Evidently Mr. Osgood was one of the progressive sort. Everything about
the place, from the busy windmill to the big white house with its wide
verandas and well-graveled walks, was scrupulously neat and clean, and
a general air of prosperity pervaded it. And when they had rattled up
the driveway to the barn, and the owner of the premises appeared before
them, they discovered him to be just such a man as his place indicated.
He was middle-aged, tall, and muscular looking, with a pair of humorous
and kindly blue eyes which sparkled brightly from his tanned face. The
boys liked him on the instant, and Nelson decided that he would not
have much difficulty in securing Jerry’s release.

They tumbled out of the wagon, and were introduced by Jerry. Mr. Osgood
declared heartily that he was very glad to meet them, especially as he
had heard so much about them from Jerry, and was in the act of shaking
hands all around when an interruption occurred. The interruption
was in the form of Barry, who, released from the wagon, had spent a
moment in running excitedly about the ground, and now was leaping
enthusiastically upon the farmer, whining and barking joyously. Mr.
Osgood stopped and looked down. Then an expression of deep surprise
overspread his face.

“Well, I’ll be switched!” he said slowly. “Where under the sun did you
come from, Laddie?”

There was a moment of silence save for the terrier’s frantic
explanations. Jerry, unhitching the horses, paused and looked at Dan.
Dan’s face was a study. He was striving very hard to keep from looking
miserable. Finally,

“Is that your dog, sir?” he asked.

“It surely is,” answered Mr. Osgood. “He disappeared about two or three
weeks ago. May I ask where you found him?”

So Dan, eagerly assisted by the others, recounted the tale of the
terrier’s rescue and subsequent adventures, and the farmer listened
interestedly. Then,

“Well, that’s what I call a plucky piece of work,” he said admiringly,
“and I’m much obliged to you. I hadn’t had Laddie long, but I was
getting mighty fond of him when he disappeared. And I’m glad to get him
back.” He hesitated. “I advertised in the Barrington paper and offered
ten dollars reward, and so--if you don’t mind taking it----”

But Dan shook his head.

“I’d rather not, sir,” he muttered. “Barry’s made it up to me lots of
times. I--we--got quite fond of him, sir.”

“I s’pose you did,” said the farmer thoughtfully, eying Dan. “I’m
sorry,” he added simply.

“What’s his name, sir?” asked Tom.

“His full name’s Forest Lad, but I call him Laddie. He used to belong
to a Mr. Hutchinson who has a place about a mile from here and raises
dogs. They say Laddie got a prize once at some show in New York, but I
don’t know for sure. He got sick in the spring, and one day when I was
over at the Hutchinson place with some grain I admired him, and Mr.
Hutchinson said I could have him if I thought I could cure him. I said
I guessed all he needed was plenty of fresh air and exercise--he was in
a run over there, with a fence around him--and so I took him. And it
did cure him too. Now, I guess Laddie got sort of homesick one day, and
started out for Hutchinson’s. The place is closed up this summer--the
family’s in Europe, I think--and it’s likely that when Laddie got
there he didn’t find anyone around. Maybe he thought he’d sort of wait
awhile. I guess that’s how you happened to run across him.”

“I guess so,” Dan agreed.

“I want you boys to stay to dinner,” continued the farmer. “It’ll be
ready in about half an hour. And if Jerry’s through with the team he
might show you around. Maybe you’ve never seen an up-to-date farm, eh?”

So Mr. Osgood excused himself, and Jerry took them in charge. Barry,
for Dan was always to remember the terrier by that name, elected to
go with them, much to Dan’s delight, and acted as though he was guide
instead of Jerry. There was much to interest them, and they weren’t
nearly through when the bell rang for dinner, and they had to hurry
back to the house. They found quite a company assembled in the dining
room, for besides Mr. Osgood there was his wife and two daughters, an
elderly lady whose relationship wasn’t quite plain, Jerry, and four
other farm hands. So they made quite a tableful when all were seated.
It was a bully dinner, to quote Tom--and Tom was a bit of an authority
on such things--and they ate heartily. And presently Nelson brought up
the subject of Jerry and Mr. Cozzens’s offer, and their host listened
in silence. Nelson painted in vivid colors the advantages to accrue
to Jerry, and when he was through, the farmer ate for a minute in
silence. Finally,

“Well, I’m sorry to lose Jerry,” he said thoughtfully, “but I’m not
going to stand in his way. I didn’t get overmuch education myself,
but I’m not fool enough to think it’s unnecessary. I guess if I’d had
more of it I might have arrived where I am to-day a good deal earlier.
So Jerry does just as he wants to in this matter. But if he takes my
advice he will go to this school you tell about. What say, Jerry?”

Jerry maintained an embarrassed silence for a moment. Then,

“I think I’ll go, sir, if it ain’t putting you in no hole,” he replied.
“Leastways, I’d like to see Mr. Cozzens and talk it over with him.”

“Right you are! You’d better go over to-morrow morning. And then if you
decide to stay I’ll send your things over to you. But you must let me
know right away so’s I can get some one in your place. Help isn’t easy
to find this time of year.”

“Thank you, sir,” answered the boy gratefully. “I’ll write to you
to-morrow afternoon if I don’t come back.”

[As a matter of fact, Jerry didn’t come back. He stayed at St.
Alfred’s, and never regretted it for a moment. But all this has nothing
to do with the present story.]

After dinner the boys completed their tour of inspection, and then
made ready to depart. Dan had been looking pretty downhearted, and when
the time came to take leave of Barry he didn’t feel much better. They
shook hands with Mr. Osgood, were cordially invited to come again, and
then turned to Jerry.

“Good-by, Jerry,” said Bob. “Don’t get discouraged if the work seems
hard at first. It’s going to be a tussle, but you can do it.”

“That’s so,” said Tom, shaking hands. “Just you bu-bu-bu-buckle down to
it, Jerry. Remember we’re bu-bu-back of you!”

“Good-by,” said Dan. “And good luck.”

“Good-by, Signor Danello,” answered Jerry with a shy effort at
pleasantry. “I--I’m sorry about--the dog.”

Dan nodded and moved away.

“I’ll write to you now and then,” said Nelson, “and tell you about
things at school--our school, Jerry--so you can keep your courage up.
And you’ll write to me, won’t you?”

“Yes,” Jerry replied eagerly. “Only--I ain’t a very good writer,
Nelson.”

“That’s all right; neither am I, I guess. Good-by. Good-by, Mr. Osgood!
And thanks for letting Jerry off.”

“Good-by,” echoed the others.

The Four turned down the walk to the gate. Barry, who during the
proceedings had been manifestly uneasy, now pricked his ears and
watched Dan’s departure with alert interest. Once he turned and looked
inquiringly at Mr. Osgood. The farmer returned his look with a smile
and a wink. Perhaps Barry understood that, like Jerry, he was free to
choose for himself. For after one indecisive moment he gave a bark and
flew down the walk as hard as he could go. He caught Dan at the gate,
and leaped ecstatically about him. Dan, his lips trembling, waved him
back and tried to tell him to go home. But the words wouldn’t come. Bob
and Nelson and Tom watched, silently sympathetic. Barry ran into the
road and turned, his tail wagging fast, as though asking, “What are you
waiting for? Aren’t we all here?”

“Barry,” muttered Dan miserably, “I can’t take you, old chap. You
aren’t my dog any more. You--you’ll have to go home.”

Then footsteps crunched on the gravel, and Dan turned to find Mr.
Osgood smiling kindly into his eyes.

“I gave him his choice,” said the farmer, “and he’s made it. He’s yours
if you want him, my boy.”

Three hours later the Four--or should I say the Five?--were standing on
the deck of the little steamer watching the Long Island shore recede
across the waters of the Sound. The boat’s nose was pointed toward New
York--and school and study and hard work. But every face there showed
happiness and contentment. For, being healthy and sensible, they
knew that study and hard work stand just as much for enjoyment as do
vacation days. And of all in the group there on the deck the happiest
was Dan, unless--well, unless, possibly, it was Barry!


THE END




BY RALPH HENRY BARBOUR.


=Forward Pass!= A Story of the “New Football.” Illustrated in Color.
Cloth, $1.50.


=The Spirit of the School.= The Story of a Boy Who Works His Way
through School. Illustrated in Colors. Cloth, $1.50.


=Four Afloat.=

=Four Afoot.=

=Four in Camp.=

A Series of Books relating the Adventures of Four Boy Companions.
Illustrated in Colors, $1.50 each.


=On Your Mark!= A Story of College Life and Athletics. Illustrated in
Colors by C. M. RELYEA. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

No other author has caught so truly the spirit of school and college
life.


=The Arrival of Jimpson.= Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

Stories of college pranks, baseball, football, hockey, and college life.


=Weatherby’s Inning.= A Story of College Life and Baseball. Illustrated
in Colors by C. M. RELYEA. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

A fascinating story of college life and sport.


=Behind the Line.= A Story of School and Football. Illustrated by C. M.
RELYEA. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.


=Captain of the Crew.= Illustrated by C. M. RELYEA. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

A fresh, graphic, delightful story that appeals to all healthy boys and
girls.


=For the Honor of the School.= A Story of School Life and Interscholastic
Sport. Illustrated by C. M. RELYEA. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.


=The Half-Back.= Illustrated by B. WEST CLINEDINST. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

“It is in every sense an out-and-out boys’ book.”--_Boston Herald._


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




BY WILLIAM O. STODDARD.

Each Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.


The Boy Lincoln.

This is an absorbing fanciful account of the early days of Abraham
Lincoln when he was a boy living on the frontier.


The Fight for the Valley.

Colored Frontispiece and other Illustrations.

A narrative of the brave defense of Fort Schuyler and the battle of
Oriskany.


The Spy of Yorktown.

Colored Frontispiece.

A story of the Yorktown campaign and Benedict Arnold.


With the Black Prince.

A Story of Adventure in the Fourteenth Century.

The absorbing interest of this stirring historical romance will appeal
to all young readers.


Success Against Odds; or, How an American Boy Made his Way.

In this spirited and interesting story Mr. Stoddard tells the
adventures of a plucky boy who fought his own battles and made his way
upward from poverty in a Long Island seashore town. It is a tale of
pluck and self-reliance capitally told.


The Red Patriot.

A Story of the American Revolution.


The Windfall; or, After the Flood.

Illustrated by B. West Clinedinst.


Chris, the Model-Maker.

A Story of New York. With 6 full-page Illustrations by B. West
Clinedinst.


On the Old Frontier.

With 10 full-page Illustrations.


The Battle of New York.

With 11 full-page Illustrations and colored Frontispiece.


Little Smoke.

A Story of the Sioux Indians. With 12 full-page Illustrations by F. S.
Dellenbaugh, portraits of Sitting Bull, Red Cloud, and other chiefs,
and 72 head and tail pieces representing the various implements and
surroundings of Indian life.


Crowded Out o’ Crofield.

With 23 Illustrations by C. T. Hill.

The story of a country boy who fought his way to success in the great
metropolis.


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




BY GABRIELLE E. JACKSON.


Little Miss Cricket.

Little Miss Cricket’s New Home.

Illustrated. 12mo. $1.25 each.

Two charming stories of a pathetic little heroine.


  The Joy of Piney Hill.

Illustrated in color by Ruth M. Hallock. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.

The story of a dear little girl who was in trouble and who was taken
into a model school where she makes every one love her.


Three Graces.

Three Graces at College.

With illustrations in tint by C. M. Relyea. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50 each.

The first, a story of boarding school life, full of incident and
wholesome characterization. The second, a charming story of college
life, its ideals, recreations, temptations and rewards.


Sunlight and Shadow.

Four full-page illustrations in colors. 12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.50.

“A wholesome little tale is this, tingling with life and youthful
spirits.”--_The Interior._


Big Jack.

Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.00.

“A book which every parent would show wisdom in putting in the
libraries of his children.”--_Dayton Daily News._


Little Miss Sunshine.

Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.50.

“A delightful, wholesome, readable book for girls.”--_Criterion._


Little Comrade.

Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.00.

Every child should be taught the love of animals. This book teaches
that love.


The Colburn Prize.

Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.00.

Dedicated to the school-girls throughout the land. Nine full-page
illustrations add to the charm of this exquisite gift book.


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




A GREAT STORY FOR BOYS.


Buck Jones at Annapolis.

By Captain RICHMOND PEARSON HOBSON, U. S. Navy. Illustrated in colors.
12mo. Ornamental cloth, $1.50.

There is no boy in the country to whom the name of Hobson does not
bring a thrill of patriotic fire. A boy’s story by this national hero
is sure of an overwhelming reception. Captain Hobson here shows himself
a story-teller of rare powers, and his book would captivate the young
reader whatever name was on its title-page. His name adds new charm and
conviction.

There has never before been so loyally and faithfully depicted the
routine and life of the naval cadet. Every incident in this story of
Buck’s career at the Naval Academy has its foundation in fact, and in
the author’s use of them here they become revitalized. Nowhere else
so well as in this story can the young man, desirous of learning how
a cadet fares at Annapolis, obtain the information. And in addition
to all this Captain Hobson has told a story brimful of interest and
adventure, the love and mystery of the sea, the fascination of boy life
aboard ship with other boys, and the friendships with old tars and
younger classmates.

“Ranked among the most popular books for boys, not only because of the
fame of the gallant young author, but because it is a splendid story of
the sort that cannot be put aside until finished, even if the reading
extends far into the small morning hours.”--_Albany Times-Union._

“American boys who take an interest in the growth and achievements of
our splendid Navy--and that means all American boys with red blood
in their veins--have a huge treat awaiting them in ‘Buck Jones at
Annapolis.’ The book is full of snap, stirring adventure and insight
into life at Annapolis.”--_Army and Navy Journal._

D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




BY HEZEKIAH BUTTERWORTH.


The Young McKinley.

Illustrated. 12mo. Ornamental Cloth, $1.50.

Mr. Butterworth portrays the future President at school, where, after
a bitter disappointment, the crusty old school-teacher, who has a good
heart beneath his severe exterior, says to him: “Never mind, you may be
President yet.” He traces President McKinley’s career through his army
days to the time when he was preparing for that great political career
which made the blow that struck him down at the height of his glory a
blow to the whole United States.


Brother Jonathan; or, The Alarm Post in the Cedars.

A Tale of Early Connecticut. Illustrated. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.


In the Days of Audubon.

A Tale of the “Protector of Birds.” Illustrated by B. West Clinedinst
and others. 12mo. Cloth, $1.50.


In the Days of Jefferson; or, The Six Golden Horseshoes.

A Tale of Republican Simplicity. Illustrated by F. T. Merrill. $1.50.


The Story of Magellan.

A Tale of the Discovery of the Philippines. Illustrated by F. T.
Merrill and others. $1.50.


The Treasure Ship.

A Story of Sir William Phipps and the Inter-Charter Period in
Massachusetts. Illustrated by B. West Clinedinst and others. $1.50.


The Pilot of the Mayflower.

Illustrated by H. Winthrop Peirce and others. $1.50.


True to His Home.

A Tale of the Boyhood of Franklin. Illustrated by H. Winthrop Peirce.
$1.50.


The Wampum Belt; or, The Fairest Page of History.

A Tale of William Penn’s Treaty with the Indians. With 6 full-page
Illustrations. $1.50.


The Knight of Liberty.

A Tale of the Fortunes of Lafayette. With 6 full-page Illustrations.
$1.50.


The Patriot Schoolmaster.

A Tale of the Minutemen and the Sons of Liberty. With 6 full-page
Illustrations by H. Winthrop Peirce. $1.50.


In the Boyhood of Lincoln.

A Story of the Black Hawk War and the Tunker Schoolmaster. With 12
Illustrations and colored Frontispiece. $1.50.


The Boys of Greenway Court.

A Story of the Early Years of Washington. With 10 full-page
Illustrations. $1.50.


The Log School-House on the Columbia.

With 13 full-page Illustrations by J. Carter Beard, E. J. Austen, and
others. $1.50.


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




STORIES FOR YOUNG READERS


=JOURNEYS OF THE KIT KAT CLUB.= _Illustrated. 8vo. $2.00 Net._

By WILLIAM R. A. WILSON.

A beautifully illustrated volume filled with interesting and salient
features of English history, folk-lore, politics, and scenery.


=BUTT CHANLER, FRESHMAN.= _Illustrated. 12mo. $1.50._

By JAMES SHELLEY HAMILTON, Amherst ’06.

College sports are always a subject of interest to young readers, and
here are incidents that are dear to all college associates.

“The story is breezy, bright, and clean.”--_The Bookseller, New York._


=WILLIAMS OF WEST POINT.= _Illustrated. 12mo. $1.50._

By Lieut. HUGH S. JOHNSON.

A story of West Point under the old code. “Every boy with red blood in
his veins will pronounce it a corker.”--_The Globe, Boston._


=THE SUBSTITUTE.= _Illustrated. 12mo. $1.50._

By WALTER CAMP.

“Presents the ideal to football enthusiasts. The author’s name is
guarantee of the accuracy of descriptions of the plays.”--_The Courant,
Hartford, Conn._


=THE FOREST RUNNERS.= _Illustrated in Color. 12mo. $1.50._

By JOSEPH A. ALTSHELER.

This story deals with the further adventures of the two young woodsmen
in the history of Kentucky who were heroes in “The Young Trailers.” The
story is full of thrills to appeal to every boy who loves a good story.


D. APPLETON AND COMPANY, NEW YORK.




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber’s note:

 --Except for the frontispiece, illustrations have been moved to the
   text that they illustrate, so the page number of the illustration
   may not match the page number in the List of Illustrations.

 --Punctuation and spelling inaccuracies were silently corrected.

 --Archaic and variable spelling has been preserved.

 --Variations in hyphenation and compound words have been preserved.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FOUR AFOOT***


******* This file should be named 50983-0.txt or 50983-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/0/9/8/50983


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

